---
layout: post
title:  "Demand"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">de<B>·</B>mand<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W1S1</B> /dɪˈmɑːnd US dɪˈmænd/ <I>n</I> <BR>* [singular, U] <BR>the need or desire that people have for particular goods and services<BR>　*<I>Food production is still increasing faster than demand.</I><BR><B>demand for</B><BR>　*<I>the demand for new housing</I><BR><B>huge/great/strong etc demand</B><BR>　*<I>There is a huge demand for new cars.</I><BR>　*<I>the <B>growing demand</B> for pasta in the UK</I><BR><B>in demand</B><BR>　*<I>He was a successful lecturer, <B>much in demand</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>We rely on new sources of energy to <B>meet demand</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>strong <B>consumer demand</B> </I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/supply%20and%20demand"><U>supply and demand</U></A></B><BR>* [C] <BR>a very firm request for something that you believe you have the right to get<BR>　*<I>demonstrations in support of the nationalists' demands</I><BR><B>demand for</B><BR>　*<I>their demand for higher salaries</I><BR><B>demand that</B><BR>　*<I>demands that he should resign</I><BR>* <B>demands</B> [plural] <BR>the difficult, annoying, or tiring things that you need to do, or a skill you need to have<BR><B>demands of</B><BR>　*<I>the demands of modern life</I><BR><B>demands on</B><BR>　*<I>The curriculum <B>makes</B> great <B>demands</B> on the teacher.</I><BR>　*<I>There are <B>heavy demands</B> on people's time these days.</I><BR><B>place/put demands on/upon sb/sth</B><BR>　*<I>the increased demands placed on police officers</I><BR>* <B>popular demand</B><BR>when a lot of people have asked for something to be done, performed etc<BR><B>by/due to popular demand</B><BR>(=because of popular demand)<BR>　*<I>The exhibition will run for an extra week, due to popular demand.</I><BR>* <B>on demand</B><BR><I>formal</I> whenever someone asks<BR>　*<I>Should you feed your baby on demand, or stick to a timetable?</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>demand</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">demand<SUP>2</SUP> <B>W2</B> <I>v</I> [T] <BR>[Date: 1300-1400; Language: Old French; Origin: demander, from <I>Latin</I> mandare <I>'to order'</I>]<BR>*to ask for something very firmly, especially because you think you have a right to do this<BR>　*<I>Angry demonstrators demanded the resignation of two senior officials.</I><BR><B>demand to know/see/have etc sth</B><BR>　*<I>I demand to know what's going on.</I><BR><B>demand that</B><BR>　*<I>They demanded that the military government free all political prisoners.</I><BR><B>demand sth of sb</B><BR>　*<I>It seemed that no matter what she did, more was demanded of her.</I><BR>　*<I>'Where are you going?' she demanded angrily.</I><BR>*if one thing demands another, it needs that thing in order to happen or be done successfully<BR>　*<I>Too many things <B>demanded</B> his <B>attention</B> at the same time.</I><BR>　*<I>It's a desperate situation demanding a desperate remedy.</I>
<HR>
<B>HINT sense 1</B> <BR>Do not say 'demand for something'. Say <B>demand something</B> : <I>I demand my money back! (NOT I demand for my money back!)</I>
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/ask"><U>ask</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/call%20for"><U>call for</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/inquire"><U>inquire</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/need"><U>need</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/require"><U>require</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/want"><U>want</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/furnish"><U>furnish</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/provision"><U>provision</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/supply"><U>supply</U></A></DIV></DIV>
