---
layout: post
title:  "Stamp"
categories: undefined
tag: easy
img: https://i.ebayimg.com/images/g/FbgAAOSwLF1X3imi/s-l300.jpg
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">stamp<SUP>1</SUP> <B>S2</B> /stæmp/ <I>n</I> [C]
<HR>
<B>1【mail】</B><BR><B>2【printed mark】</B><BR><B>3 the stamp of something</B><BR><B>4【payment】</B><BR><B>5【tax】</B><BR><B>6 of ... stamp</B><BR><B>7【with foot】</B>
<HR>
*<B>【MAIL】</B> <I>also</I> <B>postage stamp</B> <BR><I>formal</I> a small piece of paper that you buy and stick onto an envelope or package before posting it<BR>　*<I>a 29-cent stamp</I><BR>　*<I>Richard collects stamps.</I><BR>　*<I>a second-class stamp</I><BR><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/ink%20pad"><U>ink pad</U></A>, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/stamp"><U>stamp</U></A><BR>*<B>【PRINTED MARK】</B><BR>a tool for pressing or printing a mark or pattern onto a surface, or the mark made by this tool<BR>　*<I>a date stamp</I><BR>　*<I>a passport stamp</I><BR>* <B>the stamp of sth</B><BR>if something has the stamp of a particular quality, it clearly has that quality<BR>　*<I>The speech <B>bore</B> (=had) <B>the stamp of</B> authority.</I><BR>*<B>【PAYMENT】</B><BR><I>BrE</I> a small piece of paper that is worth a particular amount of money and is bought and collected for something over a period of time<BR>　*<I>television licence stamps</I><BR>*<B>【TAX】</B><BR><I>BrE</I> a piece of paper for sticking to some official papers to show that British tax has been paid<BR>* <B>of ... stamp</B><BR><I>formal</I> someone with a particular kind of character<BR>　*<I>He's clearly of a very different stamp.</I><BR>*<B>【WITH FOOT】</B><BR>an act of stamping, especially with your foot<BR>　*<I>an angry stamp</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/food%20stamp"><U>food stamp</U></A></B></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>stamp</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">stamp<SUP>2</SUP> <B>W1S1</B> <I>v</I>
<HR>
<B>1【put foot down】</B><BR><B>2【walk noisily】</B><BR><B>3【make a mark】</B><BR><B>4【affect somebody/something】</B><BR><B>5【mail】</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>stamp somebody as something</B><BR>　<B>stamp on somebody/something</B><BR>　<B>stamp something⇔out</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1100-1200; Origin: Probably from an unrecorded <I>Old English</I> stampian <I>'to crush'</I>]<BR>*<B>【PUT FOOT DOWN】</B> [I and T]<BR>to put your foot down onto the ground loudly and with a lot of force<BR>　*<I>The audience stamped and shouted.</I><BR>　*<I>'I will not!' Bert yelled and <B>stamped</B> his <B>foot</B> (=because he was angry) .</I><BR>　*<I>She stood at the bus stop <B>stamping</B> her <B>feet</B> (=because she was cold) .</I><BR><B>stamp on sb/sth</B><BR>(=try to hurt or kill someone or something, by putting your foot down onto them)<BR>　*<I>Marta shrieked and started stamping on the cockroach.</I><BR>*<B>【WALK NOISILY】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to walk somewhere in a noisy way by putting your feet down hard onto the ground because you are angry<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/stomp"><U>stomp</U></A> <B>stamp around/out of/off etc</B><BR>　*<I>My mother stamped off down the stairs.</I><BR>*<B>【MAKE A MARK】</B> [T]<BR>to put a pattern, sign, or letters on something using a special tool<BR>　*<I>The woman at the desk stamped my passport.</I><BR>　*<I>Among the papers was a brown folder stamped 'SECRET'.</I><BR><B>stamp sth on sth</B><BR>　*<I>Stamp the date on all the letters.</I><BR>*<B>【AFFECT SOMEBODY/SOMETHING】</B> [T]<BR>to have an important or permanent effect on someone or something<BR>　*<I>The experience remained <B>stamped on</B> her <B>memory</B> for many years.</I><BR><B>stamp sb with sth</B><BR>　*<I>His army years had stamped him with an air of brisk authority.</I><BR>*<B>【MAIL】</B> [T]<BR>to stick a stamp onto a letter, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/parcel"><U>parcel</U></A> etc<BR><B>stamp as</B> [stamp sb as sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>to show that someone has a particular type of character<BR>　*<I>It was his manners that stamped him as a real gentleman.</I><BR><B>stamp on /</B> [stamp on sb/sth] <I>phr v</I>to use force or your authority to stop someone from doing something, or stop something from happening, especially in an unfair way<BR>　*<I>Officers were given orders to stamp on any hint of trouble.</I><BR><B>stamp out</B> [stamp sth⇔out] <I>phr v</I><BR>*to prevent something bad from continuing<BR>　*<I>We aim to stamp out poverty in our lifetimes.</I><BR>*to stop a fire from burning by stepping hard on the flames<BR>*to make a shape or object by pressing hard on something using a machine or tool</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/brand"><U>brand</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/crush"><U>crush</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/engrave"><U>engrave</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/label"><U>label</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/mark"><U>mark</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/pound"><U>pound</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/print"><U>print</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/seal"><U>seal</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/trample"><U>trample</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/tread"><U>tread</U></A></DIV></DIV>
