---
layout: post
title:  "Range"
categories: undefined
tag: easy
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">range<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W1S1</B> /reɪndʒ/ <I>n</I>
<HR>
<B>1【variety of things/people】</B><BR><B>2【limits】</B><BR><B>3【products】</B><BR><B>4【distance】</B><BR><B>5【music】</B><BR><B>6【mountains/hills】</B><BR><B>7【place for shooting】</B><BR><B>8【ability】</B><BR><B>9【land】</B><BR><B>10【cooking】</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1200-1300; Language: Old French; Origin: renge, from rengier; <B>RANGE<SUP>2</SUP></B>]<BR>*<B>【VARIETY OF THINGS/PEOPLE】</B> [C usually singular]<BR>a number of people or things that are all different, but are all of the same general type<BR><B>range of</B><BR>　*<I>a range of services</I><BR>　*<I>The drug is effective against a range of bacteria.</I><BR><B>wide/broad/whole/full range of sth</B><BR>　*<I>students from a wide range of backgrounds</I><BR>　*<I>They give advice on a whole range of subjects.</I><BR><B>narrow/limited range of sth</B><BR>　*<I>A fairly narrow range of people are responsible for key decisions.</I><BR>*<B>【LIMITS】</B> [C] <BR>the limits within which amounts, quantities, ages etc vary<BR><B>age/price/temperature etc range</B><BR>　*<I>toys suitable for children in the pre-school age range</I><BR>　*<I>a temperature range of 72-85º</I><BR><B>in/within a ... range</B><BR>　*<I>Your blood pressure's well within the normal range.</I><BR><B>in the range (of) sth to sth</B><BR>　*<I>a salary in the range of $25,000 to $30,000</I><BR>　*<I>Even the cheapest property was <B>out of</B> our <B>price range</B> (=too expensive for us) .</I><BR>*<B>【PRODUCTS】</B> [C] <BR>a set of similar products made by a particular company or available in a particular shop<BR><B>range of</B><BR>　*<I>a new range of kitchenware</I><BR>　*<I>A company from Darlington has just launched its latest range of fashion jewellery.</I><BR>　*<I>The watches in this range are priced at £24.50.</I><BR>　*<I>We have a very large <B>product range</B> .</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/mid-range"><U>mid-range</U></A>, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/top-of-the-range"><U>top-of-the-range</U></A></B><BR>*<B>【DISTANCE】</B><BR><B>a)</B> [U and C] <BR>the distance over which a particular weapon can hit things<BR><B>range of</B><BR>　*<I>missiles with a range of 3000 km</I><BR><B>within range (of sth)</B><BR>　*<I>We waited until the enemy was within range.</I><BR><B>out of/beyond range (of sth)</B><BR>　*<I>I ducked down to get out of range of the gunshots.</I><BR><B>at close/short/point-blank range</B><BR>(=from very close)<BR>　*<I>Both men had been <B>shot at point-blank range</B> .</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/long-range"><U>long-range</U></A>, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/short-range"><U>short-range</U></A></B><BR><B>b)</B> [U and C] <BR>the distance within which something can be seen or heard<BR><B>within range (of sth)</B><BR>　*<I>a handsome man who drew admiring glances from any female within range</I><BR>　*<I>any spot within range of your radio signal</I><BR><B>out of/beyond range (of sth)</B><BR>　*<I>Joan hoped that the others were out of range of her mother's voice.</I><BR>　*<I>One way to see birds <B>at close range</B> is to attract them into your own garden.</I><BR><B>c)</B> [C] <BR>the distance which a vehicle such as an aircraft can travel before it needs more <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fuel"><U>fuel</U></A> etc<BR><B>range of</B><BR>　*<I>The plane has a range of 3,600 miles.</I><BR>*<B>【MUSIC】</B> [C usually singular]<BR>all the musical notes that a particular singer or musical instrument can make<BR>　*<I>His <B>vocal range</B> is amazing.</I><BR>*<B>【MOUNTAINS/HILLS】</B> [C] <BR>a group of mountains or hills, usually in a line<BR>　*<I>a land of high <B>mountain ranges</B> and deep valleys</I><BR><B>range of mountains/hills</B><BR>　*<I>the longest range of hills in the Lake District</I><BR>*<B>【PLACE FOR SHOOTING】</B> [C] <BR>an area of land where you can practise shooting or where weapons can be tested<BR>　*<I>a <B>rifle range</B> </I><BR>　*<I>the police <B>shooting range</B> </I><BR>*<B>【ABILITY】</B> [U and C]<BR>the number of different things that someone, especially an actor or actress, does well<BR>　*<I>an actor of extraordinary range and intensity</I><BR>*<B>【LAND】</B> [U and C]<BR><I>AmE</I> a large area of land covered with grass, on which cattle are kept<BR>*<B>【COOKING】</B> [C] <B>a)</B> <I>AmE</I> a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cooker"><U>cooker</U></A><BR><B>b)</B> <I>BrE</I> a large piece of kitchen equipment in which you make a fire and use this heat to cook food<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/stove"><U>stove</U></A><BR>　*<I>a coal-fired <B>kitchen range</B> </I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/free-range"><U>free-range</U></A></B></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">range<SUP>2</SUP> <B>W3</B> <I>v</I>
<HR>
<B>1【include】</B><BR><B>2【deal with many subjects】</B><BR><B>3【move around】</B><BR><B>4 range yourself with/against somebody/something</B><BR><B>5【arrange】</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1200-1300; Language: Old French; Origin: rengier, from renc, reng; <B>RANK<SUP>1</SUP></B>]<BR>*<B>【INCLUDE】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR><B>a)</B> to include a variety of different things or people in addition to those mentioned<BR><B>range from sth to sth</B><BR>　*<I>The show had a massive audience, ranging from children to grandparents.</I><BR><B>b)</B> if prices, levels, temperatures etc range from one amount to another, they include both those amounts and anything in between<BR><B>range from sth to sth</B><BR>　*<I>There were 120 students whose ages ranged from 10 to 18.</I><BR><B>range between sth and sth</B><BR>　*<I>The population of these cities ranges between 3 and 5 million.</I><BR><B>range in age/size/price etc</B><BR>　*<I>The shoes range in price from $25 to $100.</I><BR>*<B>【DEAL WITH MANY SUBJECTS】</B> [I]<BR>to deal with a wide range of subjects or ideas in a book, speech, conversation etc<BR><B>range over</B><BR>　*<I>The conversation had ranged over a variety of topics, from sport to current affairs.</I><BR>　*<I>The discussion <B>ranged widely</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【MOVE AROUND】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to move around in an area without aiming for a particular place<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/wander"><U>wander</U></A> <B>range over/through</B><BR>　*<I>Cattle ranged over the pastures in search of food.</I><BR>* <B>range yourself with/against sb/sth</B><BR><I>formal</I> to publicly state your agreement with, or opposition to, a particular group's beliefs and ideas<BR>　*<I>individuals who had ranged themselves against the authorities</I><BR>*<B>【ARRANGE】</B><BR><I>BrE</I> [T always + adverb/preposition] <I>formal</I> <BR>to put things in a particular order or position<BR>　*<I>In the dining room, team photographs were ranged along the wall.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/distance"><U>distance</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/extent"><U>extent</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/length"><U>length</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/limit"><U>limit</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/reach"><U>reach</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/scope"><U>scope</U></A></DIV></DIV>
