---
layout: post
title:  "Spring"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">spring<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W2S2</B> /sprɪŋ/ <I>n</I>
<HR>
<B>1【season】</B><BR><B>2【curved metal】</B><BR><B>3【water】</B><BR><B>4 spring in your step</B><BR><B>5 full of the joys of spring</B><BR><B>6【sudden jump】</B>
<HR>
*<B>【SEASON】</B> [U and C]<BR>the season between winter and summer when leaves and flowers appear<BR><B>spring of</B><BR>　*<I>the spring of 1933</I><BR><B>in/during the spring</B><BR>　*<I>It's due to open in the spring.</I><BR><B>late/early spring</B><BR>　*<I>It was a cold, sunny day in early spring.</I><BR>　*<I>spring flowers</I><BR><BR>*<B>【CURVED METAL】</B><BR><B>a)</B> [C usually plural] <BR>something, usually a twisted piece of metal, that will return to its previous shape after it has been pressed down<BR>　*<I>an old armchair with broken springs</I><BR><B>b)</B> [U] <BR>the ability of a chair, bed etc to return to its normal shape after being pressed down<BR>*<B>【WATER】</B> [C] <BR>a place where water comes up naturally from the ground<BR>　*<I>spring water</I><BR>　*<I>There are several <B>hot springs</B> in the area.</I><BR>* <B>spring in your step</B><BR>if you walk with a spring in your step, you move quickly and happily<BR>　*<I>As he walked into the office that morning, there was a spring in his step.</I><BR>* <B>full of the joys of spring</B><BR>happy and full of energy - used humorously<BR>*<B>【SUDDEN JUMP】</B> [singular]<BR>a sudden quick movement or jump in a particular direction<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/leap"><U>leap</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>spring</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">spring<SUP>2</SUP> <I>v past tense</I> <B>sprang</B> /spræŋ/ <I>also</I> <B>sprung</B> /sprʌŋ/ <I>AmE past participle</I> <B>sprung</B>
<HR>
<B>1【move suddenly】</B><BR><B>2【move back】</B><BR><B>3 spring to (somebody's) mind</B><BR><B>4 spring into action</B><BR><B>5 spring a surprise</B><BR><B>6 tears spring to/into somebody's eyes</B><BR><B>7 spring into existence/being</B><BR><B>8 spring a trap</B><BR><B>9 spring a leak</B><BR><B>10 spring to somebody's defence</B><BR><B>11 spring to attention</B><BR><B>12【help somebody escape】</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>spring for something</B><BR>　<B>spring from something</B><BR>　<B>spring something on somebody</B><BR>　<B>spring up</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English; Origin: springan]<BR>*<B>【MOVE SUDDENLY】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to move suddenly and quickly in a particular direction, especially by jumping<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/leap"><U>leap</U></A> <B>spring out of/from</B><BR>　*<I>Tom sprung out of bed and ran downstairs.</I><BR><B>spring out at sb</B><BR>　*<I>Two men sprang out at me as I was walking through the park.</I><BR>　*<I>He <B>sprang to his feet</B> (=stood up suddenly) and rushed after her.</I><BR><B>spring to sb's aid/assistance</B><BR>(=move quickly to help someone)<BR>　*<I>One of the young policemen sprang to her assistance.</I><BR>*<B>【MOVE BACK】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR>if something springs back, open etc, it moves quickly, suddenly and with force, especially after being pushed down or sideways<BR><B>spring back/up</B><BR>　*<I>The branch sprang back and hit him in the face.</I><BR><B>spring open/shut</B><BR>　*<I>The gate sprang shut behind them.</I><BR>* <B>spring to (sb's) mind</B><BR>if someone or something springs to mind, you immediately think of them<BR>　*<I>Two questions spring to mind.</I><BR>* <B>spring into action</B> <I>also</I> <B>spring to/into life</B> <BR>to suddenly become active, start moving or start working<BR>　*<I>They were prepared and ready to spring into action.</I><BR>　*<I>Finally the engine sprang to life.</I><BR>* <B>spring a surprise</B><BR>to do something surprising<BR>　*<I>Roy is unlikely to spring any surprises.</I><BR>* <B>tears spring to/into sb's eyes</B><BR><I>written</I> used to say that someone starts to cry<BR>* <B>spring into existence/being</B><BR>to suddenly begin to exist<BR>　*<I>A lot of small businesses sprang into existence during the 1980s.</I><BR>* <B>spring a trap</B><BR><B>a)</B> if an animal springs a trap, it is caught by the trap<BR><B>b)</B> to make someone say or do something by tricking them<BR>* <B>spring a leak</B><BR>if a boat or a container springs a leak, it begins to let liquid in or out through a crack or hole<BR>* <B>spring to sb's defence</B><BR>to quickly defend someone who is being criticized<BR>　*<I>Charlene sprang immediately to her son's defence.</I><BR>* <B>spring to attention</B><BR>if soldiers spring to attention, they stand suddenly upright<BR>*<B>【HELP SOMEBODY ESCAPE】</B> [T + from] <I>informal</I><BR>to help someone escape from prison<BR><B>spring for</B> [spring for sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>to pay for something<BR>　*<I>I'll spring for the beer tonight.</I><BR><B>spring from</B> [spring from sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>to be caused by something or start from something<BR>　*<I>behaviour which springs from prejudices</I><BR><B>spring on</B> [spring sth on sb] <I>phr v</I><BR>to tell someone something or ask them to do something when they do not expect it and are not ready for it<BR>　*<I>It's not fair to spring this on her without any warning.</I><BR><B>spring up</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>to suddenly appear or start to exist<BR>　*<I>Fast-food restaurants are springing up all over town.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bounce"><U>bounce</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bound"><U>bound</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/hop"><U>hop</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/hurdle"><U>hurdle</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/jump"><U>jump</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/leap"><U>leap</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/vault"><U>vault</U></A></DIV></DIV>
