---
layout: post
title:  "Drop"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">drop<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W2S1</B> /drɔp US drɑːp/ <I>v past tense and past participle</I> <B>dropped</B> <I>present participle</I> <B>dropping</B>
<HR>
<B>1【let something fall】</B><BR><B>2【fall】</B><BR><B>3【move your body down】</B><BR><B>4【become less】</B><BR><B>5【reduce】</B><BR><B>6【not include】</B><BR><B>7【stop doing something】</B><BR><B>8【stop talking about something】</B><BR><B>9【take somebody somewhere】</B><BR><B>10【take something somewhere】</B><BR><B>11【visit】</B><BR><B>12【slope downwards】</B><BR><B>13【end a relationship】</B><BR><B>14 until/till you drop</B><BR><B>15 drop a hint</B><BR><B>16 drop somebody a line/note</B><BR><B>17 drop dead</B><BR><B>18 somebody's jaw dropped</B><BR><B>19 drop your eyes/gaze</B><BR><B>20 the wind drops</B><BR><B>21 drop a bombshell</B><BR><B>22 drop somebody in it</B><BR><B>23 drop $50/£2000 etc</B><BR><B>24 drop a catch</B><BR><B>25 drop a point</B><BR><B>26 be dropping like flies</B><BR><B>27 drop a clanger/brick</B><BR><B>28 drop a stitch</B><BR><B>29 drop anchor</B><BR><B>30 drop acid</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>drop back</B><BR>　<B>drop off</B><BR>　<B>drop out</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English; Origin: droppian]<BR>*<B>【LET SOMETHING FALL】</B> [T]<BR><B>a)</B> to stop holding or carrying something so that it falls<BR>　*<I>He dropped his briefcase on a chair.</I><BR>　*<I>She screamed and dropped the torch.</I><BR><B>b)</B> to make something such as a bomb fall from a plane<BR>　*<I>U.S. planes began dropping bombs on the city.</I><BR>　*<I>Supplies are being dropped for the refugees.</I><BR>*<B>【FALL】</B> [I]<BR>to fall suddenly onto the ground or into something<BR><B>drop from/off</B><BR>　*<I>The apples are beginning to drop from the trees.</I><BR>　*<I>Your button has dropped off.</I><BR>*<B>【MOVE YOUR BODY DOWN】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition, T]<BR>to lower yourself or part of your body suddenly<BR><B>drop down/onto/into</B><BR>　*<I>He dropped down onto the floor and hid under the table.</I><BR>　*<I>She <B>dropped</B> her <B>head</B> back against the cushion.</I><BR>*<B>【BECOME LESS】</B> [I]<BR>to fall to a lower level or amount, especially a much lower level or amount<BR><B>drop suddenly/sharply/dramatically</B><BR>　*<I>The number of deaths on the roads has dropped sharply.</I><BR>　*<I>Temperatures drop quite dramatically at night, so bring some warm clothing.</I><BR><B>drop to</B><BR>　*<I>Their share of the market dropped to 50 percent this year.</I><BR>*<B>【REDUCE】</B> [T]<BR>to reduce the level or amount of something<BR>　*<I>You might be able to get them to <B>drop</B> the <B>price</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>As soon as she saw the police car she <B>dropped</B> her <B>speed</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【NOT INCLUDE】</B> [T]<BR>to decide not to include someone or something<BR>　*<I>His name was dropped from the list.</I><BR><B>drop sb from a team/side</B><BR>　*<I>Taylor was bitterly disappointed to be dropped from the England side.</I><BR>*<B>【STOP DOING SOMETHING】</B> [T]<BR>to stop doing something, discussing something, or continuing with something<BR>　*<I>The proposal was dropped after opposition from civil liberties groups.</I><BR><B>drop charges/drop a case</B><BR>　*<I>New evidence was presented to the court and the case was dropped.</I><BR><B>drop a subject at school/university</B><BR>(=stop studying it)<BR>　*<I>Students are allowed to drop history in Year 9.</I><BR>　*<I>You can't expect me to <B>drop everything</B> (=completely stop doing whatever I am doing) whenever you're in town.</I><BR>　*<I>Oh, drop the 'Senator' (=stop calling me 'Senator') - just call me Gordon.</I><BR>　*<I>Some time later, the matter was quietly dropped.</I><BR>*<B>【STOP TALKING ABOUT SOMETHING】</B> [I and T]<BR>to stop talking about something<BR><B>drop the subject</B><BR>　*<I>To her relief, Julius <B>dropped the subject</B> .</I><BR><B>drop it</B><BR>(=stop talking about a subject)<BR>　*<I>Just <B>drop it, will you</B> ? I don't want to talk about it any more.</I><BR>　*<I>'What about the money?' 'We've agreed to <B>let it drop</B> (=we have agreed not to talk about it any more) .'</I><BR>*<B>【TAKE SOMEBODY SOMEWHERE】</B> <I>also</I> <B>drop off</B> [T]<BR>to take someone by car to a place and leave them there, especially on your way to another place<BR>　*<I>Just drop me here - I can walk the rest of the way.</I><BR><B>drop sb at sth</B><BR>　*<I>She dropped Johnny at the school gates at about 8:30.</I><BR>*<B>【TAKE SOMETHING SOMEWHERE】</B> [T]<BR>to take something to a place and leave it there<BR><B>drop sth round/in</B><BR>　*<I>I've got your books - I'll drop them round to your place later.</I><BR>*<B>【VISIT】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to visit someone you know, usually without arranging a particular time<BR><B>drop by/round</B><BR>　*<I>I just dropped by to see how you were getting on.</I><BR>　*<I>The kids drop round and see her from time to time.</I><BR><B>drop into</B><BR>　*<I>Jan dropped into the office this morning to tell me her news.</I><BR><B>drop in (on sb)</B><BR>　*<I>Why don't you drop in for a drink one evening?</I><BR>*<B>【SLOPE DOWNWARDS】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR>if a path, land etc drops, it goes down suddenly, forming a steep slope<BR><B>drop down</B><BR>　*<I>The cliff dropped down over a hundred feet to the sea below.</I><BR><B>drop away</B><BR>　*<I>On the left the ground drops away, giving a view over the rooftops.</I><BR>*<B>【END A RELATIONSHIP】</B> [T] <I>informal</I><BR>to suddenly stop having a relationship with someone, especially a romantic relationship<BR>　*<I>She dropped him as soon as she found out he had been seeing another woman.</I><BR>* <B>until/till you drop</B><BR>until you are too tired to continue doing something<BR>　*<I>We're going to shop till we drop!</I><BR>* <B>drop a hint</B><BR>to suggest or ask for something in an indirect way, hoping that the person you are talking to will understand what you mean<BR>　*<I>He dropped some big hints about what he wanted for his birthday.</I><BR>* <B>drop sb a line/note</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to write a short letter to someone<BR>　*<I>Drop us a line to let us know how you're getting on.</I><BR>* <B>drop dead</B><BR><B>a)</B> <I>informal</I> to die suddenly<BR><B>b)</B> <I>spoken informal</I> an impolite expression which you say to someone when you are extremely angry with them<BR>* <B>sb's jaw dropped</B><BR>used to say that someone was very surprised<BR>* <B>drop your eyes/gaze</B><BR>to stop looking at someone and look down, usually because you feel embarrassed or uncomfortable<BR>　*<I>Ben looked at me in horror for a moment and then dropped his gaze.</I><BR>* <B>the wind drops</B><BR>the wind stops<BR>　*<I>They waited for the wind to drop.</I><BR>* <B>drop a bombshell</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to suddenly tell someone a shocking piece of news<BR>　*<I>Finally she dropped the bombshell. She was pregnant and I was the father.</I><BR>* <B>drop sb in it</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to say or do something that gets someone else into trouble<BR>　*<I>You told her where we went on Friday night! You've really dropped me in it now!</I><BR>* <B>drop $50/£2000 etc</B> [T] <I>informal</I> <BR>to lose money in a business deal, a game etc<BR>　*<I>Phil dropped $200 playing poker yesterday.</I><BR>* <B>drop a catch</B><BR>to fail to catch a ball hit by a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/batsman"><U>batsman</U></A> in <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cricket"><U>cricket</U></A><BR>* <B>drop a point</B><BR>to lose a point in a sports competition<BR>　*<I>Real Madrid dropped a point at home yesterday.</I><BR>* <B>be dropping like flies</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>if people are dropping like flies, they are getting ill or dying in large numbers<BR>* <B>drop a clanger/brick</B><BR><I>BrE</I> to say something embarrassing in a social situation<BR>* <B>drop a stitch</B><BR>to let the wool fall off the needle when you are <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/knitting"><U>knitting</U></A><BR>* <B>drop anchor</B><BR>to lower a boat's <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/anchor"><U>anchor</U></A> to the bottom of the sea, a lake etc so that the boat does not float away<BR>* <B>drop acid</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to swallow <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/LSD"><U>LSD</U></A> (=an illegal drug) <BR><B>drop back</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>to move more slowly than other people so that they get ahead of you<BR>　*<I>He started out with the leaders but at the first fence he dropped back.</I><BR>　*<I>Ellen dropped behind to tie her shoelace.</I><BR><B>drop off</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>*to begin to sleep<BR>　*<I>She kept dropping off at her desk.</I><BR>　*<I>I must have <B>dropped off to sleep</B> .</I><BR>* <B>drop sb/sth⇔off</B><BR>to take someone or something to a place by car and leave them there on your way to another place<BR>　*<I>I'll drop you off on my way home.</I><BR>*to fall to a lower level or amount<BR>　*<I>The number of graduates going into teaching has dropped off sharply.</I><BR><B>drop out</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>*to no longer do an activity or belong to a group<BR>　*<I>The group gets smaller as members move away or drop out.</I><BR>*to leave a school or university before your course has finished<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dropout"><U>dropout</U></A> <B>drop out of</B><BR>　*<I>Bill dropped out of college after his first year.</I><BR>*to refuse to take part in ordinary society because you do not agree with its principles<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dropout"><U>dropout</U></A><BR>　*<I>In the 60s, Timothy Leary famously urged kids to 'Turn on, tune in and drop out.'</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">drop<SUP>2</SUP> <B>W3S2</B> <I>n</I>
<HR>
<B>1【liquid】</B><BR><B>2【small amount】</B><BR><B>3【reduction】</B><BR><B>4【distance to ground】</B><BR><B>5 at the drop of a hat</B><BR><B>6【delivery】</B><BR><B>7 lemon/fruit/chocolate etc drop</B><BR><B>8 a drop in the ocean</B><BR><B>9 eye/ear etc drops</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English; Origin: dropa]<BR>*<B>【LIQUID】</B> [C] <BR>a very small amount of liquid that falls in a round shape<BR><B>drop of</B><BR>　*<I>As the first drops of rain began to fall, Michael started to run.</I><BR>　*<I>A single drop of blood splashed onto the floor.</I><BR>　*<I>A drop of sweat ran down her forehead and into her eye.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rain%20drop"><U>rain drop</U></A>, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/teardrop"><U>teardrop</U></A></B><BR>*<B>【SMALL AMOUNT】</B> [usually singular] <I>informal</I> <BR><B>a)</B> a small amount of liquid that you drink, especially alcohol<BR><B>drop of</B><BR>　*<I>She likes to add a drop of brandy to her tea.</I><BR>　*<I>George hasn't <B>touched a drop</B> (=drunk any alcohol) for years.</I><BR><B>b)</B> a small amount of something<BR><B>drop of</B><BR>　*<I>I haven't got a drop of sympathy for him.</I><BR>*<B>【REDUCTION】</B> [singular]<BR>a reduction in the amount, level, or number of something, especially a large or sudden one<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fall"><U>fall</U></A> <B>drop in</B><BR>　*<I>Manufacturers report a big drop in new orders.</I><BR>　*<I>a drop in temperature</I><BR><B>a sharp/dramatic/marked drop in sth</B><BR>　*<I>The results showed a sharp drop in profits.</I><BR>*<B>【DISTANCE TO GROUND】</B> [singular]<BR>a distance from a higher point down to the ground or to a lower point<BR>　*<I>There was a steep drop on one side of the track.</I><BR>　*<I>a 20-metre drop</I><BR>　*<I>There was an almost <B>sheer</B> (=vertical) <B>drop</B> to the valley below.</I><BR>* <B>at the drop of a hat</B><BR>immediately and without pausing to think about what you are going to do<BR>　*<I>Some of these corporations threaten to sue at the drop of a hat.</I><BR>*<B>【DELIVERY】</B> [C] <BR>an act of delivering something somewhere, for example by dropping it from a plane<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/delivery"><U>delivery</U></A><BR>　*<I>Air drops (=from a plane) of food aid were made to the region yesterday.</I><BR>　*<I>My first drop of the day is usually somewhere in north London.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/mail%20drop"><U>mail drop</U></A></B><BR>* <B>lemon/fruit/chocolate etc drop</B><BR>a sweet that tastes of <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/lemon"><U>lemon</U></A> etc<BR>* <B>a drop in the ocean</B><BR><I>BrE</I> <B>a drop in the bucket</B> <BR><I>AmE</I> a very small amount of something compared to what is needed or wanted<BR>　*<I>5000 new schools are to be built, but this is just a drop in the ocean for such a vast country.</I><BR>* <B>eye/ear etc drops</B><BR>a type of medicine that you put in your eye, ear etc, one drop at a time</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/abandon"><U>abandon</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cease"><U>cease</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/descend"><U>descend</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dismiss"><U>dismiss</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dive"><U>dive</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/end"><U>end</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fall"><U>fall</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/give%20up"><U>give up</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/let%20go"><U>let go</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/plunge"><U>plunge</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/stop"><U>stop</U></A></DIV></DIV>
