---
layout: post
title:  "Power"
categories: undefined
tag: easy
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">pow<B>·</B>er<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W1S1</B> /ˈpauə US paur/ <I>n</I>
<HR>
<B>1【control】</B><BR><B>2【government】</B><BR><B>3【influence】</B><BR><B>4【right/authority】</B><BR><B>5【ability】</B><BR><B>6【energy】</B><BR><B>7 earning/purchasing/bargaining etc power</B><BR><B>8【strength】</B><BR><B>9【electricity】</B><BR><B>10 air/sea power</B><BR><B>11【strong country】</B><BR><B>12 be in/within somebody's power (to do something)</B><BR><B>13 be beyond somebody's power (to do something)</B><BR><B>14 be in somebody's power</B><BR><B>15 do somebody a power of good</B><BR><B>16【mathematics】</B><BR><B>17 the powers that be</B><BR><B>18【lens】</B><BR><B>19 the powers of good/evil/darkness</B><BR><B>20 a power in the land</B><BR><B>21 the power behind the throne</B><BR><B>22 power trip</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1200-1300; Language: Old French; Origin: poeir, from poeir <I>'to be able'</I>, from <I>Latin</I> potere; <B>POTENT</B>]<BR>*<B>【CONTROL】</B>[U]<BR>the ability or right to control people or events<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/powerful"><U>powerful</U></A>, powerless <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/powerless"><U>powerless</U></A><BR>　*<I>We all felt that the chairman had too much power.</I><BR><B>power over</B><BR>　*<I>People should have more power over the decisions that affect their lives.</I><BR>　*<I>the enormous <B>economic power</B> of the US</I><BR>　*<I>Workers had little <B>political power</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>the <B>balance of power</B> between management and unions</I><BR>　*<I>He was engaged in a bitter <B>power struggle</B> with the director (=a situation in which groups or leaders try to get control) .</I><BR>　*<I>Nothing will change until there are more women in <B>positions of power.</B> </I><BR><B>power-mad/power-crazy/power-hungry</B><BR>　*<I>power-hungry politicians</I><BR>　*<I>The bishops had almost <B>absolute power</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>the power <B>wielded</B> by unelected civil servants (=which they have and use)</I> <BR>*<B>【GOVERNMENT】</B>[U]<BR>the position of having political control of a country or government<BR><B>in power</B><BR>　*<I>The dictator had been in power for seven years.</I><BR>　*<I>the party in power</I><BR><B>come/rise to power</B><BR>(=start having political control)<BR>　*<I>De Gaulle came to power in 1958.</I><BR>　*<I>They <B>seized power</B> in a military coup.</I><BR>*<B>【INFLUENCE】</B>[U]<BR>the ability to influence people or give them strong feelings<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/powerful"><U>powerful</U></A>, powerless <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/powerless"><U>powerless</U></A> <B>power of</B><BR>　*<I>the power of his writing</I><BR>　*<I>the immense power of television</I><BR>　*<I>the <B>pulling power</B> (=ability to attract people or attention) of major celebrities</I><BR><B>student/black/consumer etc power</B><BR>(=the political or social influence a particular group has) <BR>*<B>【RIGHT/AUTHORITY】</B> [U and C]<BR>the right or authority to do something<BR>　*<I>The police have been given special powers to help them in the fight against terrorism.</I><BR><B>power to do sth</B><BR>　*<I>The committee has the power to order an enquiry.</I><BR><B>power of arrest/veto etc</B><BR>　*<I>The chairman has the power of veto on all decisions.</I><BR>*<B>【ABILITY】</B> [U and C]<BR>a natural or special ability to do something<BR>　*<I>After the accident she lost the <B>power of speech</B> (=ability to speak) .</I><BR><B>powers of observation/concentration/persuasion</B><BR>　*<I>a writer's powers of observation</I><BR>　*<I>your mental powers</I><BR>　*<I>a stone with magical powers</I><BR>*<B>【ENERGY】</B>[U]<BR>energy that can be used to make a machine work or to make electricity<BR><B>nuclear/wind/solar etc power</B><BR>　*<I>Many people are opposed to the use of nuclear power.</I><BR>　*<I>the search for renewable <B>sources of power</B> </I><BR><B>under power</B><BR>　*<I>The ship was able to leave port <B>under its own power</B> (=without help from another machine, ship etc) .</I><BR>* <B>earning/purchasing/bargaining etc power</B><BR>the ability to earn money, buy things etc<BR>　*<I>Property in the city is beyond the purchasing power of most people.</I><BR>　*<I>your bargaining power in pay negotiations</I><BR>*<B>【STRENGTH】</B>[U]<BR>the physical strength or effect of something<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/powerful"><U>powerful</U></A><BR>　*<I>the power of a cheetah's long legs</I><BR>　*<I>The power of the explosion smashed windows across the street.</I><BR>*<B>【ELECTRICITY】</B>[U]<BR>electricity that is used in houses, factories etc<BR>　*<I>Make sure the power is switched off first.</I><BR><B>power cut/failure/outage</B><BR>(=a short time when the electricity supply is not working)<BR>　*<I>Parts of the country have had power cuts because of the storms.</I><BR>　*<I>The power came back on.</I><BR>* <B>air/sea power</B><BR>the number of planes or ships that a country has available to use in a war<BR>*<B>【STRONG COUNTRY】</B> [C] <BR>a country that is strong and important and can influence events, or that has a lot of military strength<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/powerful"><U>powerful</U></A>, powerless <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/powerless"><U>powerless</U></A><BR>　*<I>Egypt is still a major power in the Middle East.</I><BR><B>world power</B><BR>(=a country that can influence events in different parts of the world) <BR>* <B>be in/within sb's power (to do sth)</B><BR>if it is in someone's power to do something, they have the authority or ability to do it<BR>　*<I>I wish it was within my power to change the decision.</I><BR><B>do everything/all in your power</B><BR>　*<I>The ambassador promised to do everything in his power to get the hostages released.</I><BR>* <B>be beyond sb's power (to do sth)</B><BR>if it is beyond someone's power to do something, they do not have the authority or ability to do it<BR>　*<I>It's beyond the power of the court to make such a decision.</I><BR>* <B>be in sb's power</B><BR><I>literary</I> to be in a situation in which someone has complete control over you<BR>* <B>do sb a power of good</B><BR><I>BrE informal</I> to make someone feel more healthy, happy, and hopeful about the future<BR>　*<I>It looks as if your holiday has done you a power of good.</I><BR>*<B>【MATHEMATICS】</B> [C] <BR>if a number is increased to the power of three, four, five etc, it is multiplied by itself three, four, five etc times<BR>* <B>the powers that be</B><BR>the unknown people who have important positions of authority and power, and whose decisions affect your life<BR>　*<I>The powers that be don't want the media to get hold of the story.</I><BR>*<B>【LENS】</B>[U]<BR><I>technical</I> the ability of a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/lens"><U>lens</U></A>, for example in a pair of <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/glass"><U>glasses</U></A> or a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/microscope"><U>microscope</U></A>, to make things look bigger<BR>* <B>the powers of good/evil/darkness</B><BR>unknown or magical forces that people believe can influence events in a good or evil way<BR>* <B>a power in the land</B><BR><I>old-fashioned</I> someone who has a lot of power and influence in a country<BR>* <B>the power behind the throne</B><BR>someone who secretly controls and influences decisions made by the leader or government of a country, but who does not have an official government position<BR>* <B>power trip</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>if you are on a power trip, you are enjoying your power or authority in a way that other people think is unpleasant<BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/staying%20power"><U>staying power</U></A>, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/balance%20of%20power"><U>balance of power</U></A>, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/high-powered"><U>high-powered</U></A></B></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">power<SUP>2</SUP> <I>v</I> <BR>* [T usually passive] <BR>to supply power to a vehicle or machine<BR>　*<I>It's powered by a Ferrari V12 engine.</I><BR>* [I always + adverb/preposition] <BR>to move with a lot of force and speed<BR>　*<I>His strong body powered through the water.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/high-powered"><U>high-powered</U></A></B><BR><B>power up</B> [power sth⇔up] <I>phr v</I><BR>to make a machine start working<BR>　*<I>Never move a computer while it is powered up.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">power<SUP>3</SUP> <I>adj</I> [only before noun] <BR>*driven by an electric motor<BR>　*<I>power tools</I><BR>　*<I>power shower</I><BR>* <B>power breakfast/lunch etc</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>a meal at which people meet to discuss business<BR>* <B>power suit</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>clothes which you wear at work to make you look important or confident</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/authority"><U>authority</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/command"><U>command</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/control"><U>control</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dominion"><U>dominion</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/energy"><U>energy</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/force"><U>force</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/influence"><U>influence</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/mastery"><U>mastery</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/might"><U>might</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/potency"><U>potency</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/right"><U>right</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/strength"><U>strength</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/vigor"><U>vigor</U></A></DIV></DIV>
