---
layout: post
title:  "Agree"
categories: undefined
tag: easy
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">a<B>·</B>gree<BR><B>W1S1</B> /əˈgriː/ <I>v</I>
<HR>
<B>1【same opinion】</B><BR><B>2【say yes】</B><BR><B>3【decide together】</B><BR><B>4【be the same】</B><BR><B>5 agree to differ/disagree</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>agree with something</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1300-1400; Language: Old French; Origin: agréer, from gré <I>'will, pleasure'</I>, from <I>Latin</I> gratus <I>'pleasing'</I>]<BR>*<B>【SAME OPINION】</B> [I,T not in progressive]<BR>to have or express the same opinion about something as someone else<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/disagree"><U>disagree</U></A><BR>　*<I>Teenagers and their parents rarely agree.</I><BR><B>agree with</B><BR>　*<I>If she felt he was right, she would agree with him.</I><BR><B>agree that</B><BR>　*<I>Most people nowadays would agree that a good pub is one of our best traditions.</I><BR><B>agree on/about</B><BR>　*<I>We don't agree on everything, of course.</I><BR><B>I quite agree/I couldn't agree more</B><BR>(=I agree completely)<BR>　*<I>'We have to talk.' 'Absolutely,' Meredith replied. 'I couldn't agree more.'</I><BR>*<B>【SAY YES】</B> [I,T not in progressive]<BR>to say yes to an idea, plan, suggestion etc<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/refuse"><U>refuse</U></A><BR>　*<I>I suggested we go somewhere for the weekend and she agreed at once.</I><BR><B>agree to do sth</B><BR>　*<I>No one really knows why he agreed to do the film.</I><BR><B>agree to</B><BR>　*<I>My sister won't agree to our mother going into a nursing home.</I><BR>*<B>【DECIDE TOGETHER】</B> [I,T not in progressive]<BR>to make a decision with someone after a discussion with them<BR><B>agree to do sth</B><BR>　*<I>We agreed to meet again the following Monday.</I><BR><B>agree on</B><BR>　*<I>They managed to agree on a date for the wedding.</I><BR><B>agree that</B><BR>　*<I>It was agreed that elections would be held in May.</I><BR><B>agree a price/plan/strategy etc</B><BR>　*<I>We agreed a new four-year contract.</I><BR>*<B>【BE THE SAME】</B> [I not in progressive]<BR>if two pieces of information agree with each other, they match or are the same<BR><B>agree with</B><BR>　*<I>Your story doesn't agree with what the police have told us.</I><BR>* <B>agree to differ/disagree</B><BR>if two people agree to differ, they accept that they have different opinions about something and stop arguing about it<BR><B>agree with</B> [agree with sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>*to believe that a decision, action, or suggestion is correct or right<BR>　*<I>I don't agree with hitting children.</I><BR>* <B>not agree with sb</B><BR>if a type of food does not agree with you, it makes you feel ill<BR>　*<I>Green peppers don't agree with me.</I><BR>*if an adjective, verb etc agrees with a word, it matches that word by being plural if the word is plural etc</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/accept"><U>accept</U></A> <A title="Find: approve of" class=syn href="{{ site.baseurl }}/approve%20of"><U>approve of</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assent"><U>assent</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/comply"><U>comply</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/consent"><U>consent</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/differ"><U>differ</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/disagree"><U>disagree</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/object"><U>object</U></A></DIV></DIV>

> "I can't agree with you more"
>
> To say that "I can't agree with you more" means you fully and absolutely agree with someone. You can't possibly agree with them more than you already are with this person. 100% agreement with everything said person is saying.

> "I can't agree with you any more"
>
> This sentence is kind of the same as the below one. You aren't able to agree with someone at any higher degree than you are now.

> "I can't agree with you anymore"
>
> The words "anymore" and "any more" are very different, please be careful!
>
> To say "I can't agree with you anymore" means you can no longer agree with someone. That's how the word "anymore" is different than the words "any + more." You are no longer able to agree with that person. Here are some examples of using the word "anymore" vs "any + more":
>
> "I can't row this boat any more" : You cannot row the boat more than you are at the present moment
>
> "I can't row this boat anymore": You are no longer capable of rowing the boat
>
> "I can't push this box any more": You cannot push the box with more effort than you are pushing it at the present moment
>
> "I can't push this box anymore": You are no longer capable of pushing the box
