---
layout: post
title:  "Wheel"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">wheel<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W3S2</B> /wiːl/ <I>n</I> [C]
<HR>
<B>1【on a vehicle】</B><BR><B>2【for controlling a vehicle】</B><BR><B>3【in a machine】</B><BR><B>4 the wheels of something</B><BR><B>5 the wheel of fortune/life/time etc</B><BR><B>6 (set of) wheels</B><BR><B>7 wheels within wheels</B><BR><B>8 set the wheels in motion/set the wheels turning</B><BR><B>9 a/the big wheel</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English; Origin: hweogol, hweol]<BR>*<B>【ON A VEHICLE】</B><BR>one of the round things under a car, bus, bicycle etc that turns when it moves<BR><B>front/rear/back wheel</B><BR>　*<I>The car slid sideways, its rear <B>wheels spinning</B> .</I><BR><B>on wheels</B><BR>　*<I>a trolley on wheels</I><BR><B>two-wheeled/three-wheeled/four-wheeled</B><BR>(=having two, three etc wheels)<BR>　*<I>a three-wheeled car</I><BR><B>two-wheeler/three-wheeler</B><BR>(=a bicycle with two or three wheels) <BR>*<B>【FOR CONTROLLING A VEHICLE】</B> [usually singular]<BR>the round piece of equipment that you turn to make a car, ship etc move in a particular direction<BR><B>at/behind the wheel</B><BR>(=driving a car)<BR>　*<I>The driver must have <B>fallen asleep at the wheel</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>Shall I <B>take the wheel</B> (=drive instead of someone else) ?</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/steering%20wheel"><U>steering wheel</U></A></B><BR>*<B>【IN A MACHINE】</B><BR>a flat round part in a machine that turns round when the machine operates<BR>　*<I>a gear wheel</I><BR>* <B>the wheels of sth</B><BR>the way in which a complicated organization, system etc works<BR>　*<I>We hope that the next government will do more to keep <B>the wheels of industry</B> turning (=help it to work smoothly and easily) .</I><BR><B>oil/grease the wheels (of sth)</B><BR>(=help something to work more smoothly and easily)<BR>　*<I>The money people spend at Christmas oils the wheels of the economy.</I><BR>* <B>the wheel of fortune/life/time etc</B><BR>the way in which things change in life, or in which the same things seem to happen again after a period of time<BR>　*<I>We are powerless to stop the wheel of history.</I><BR>* <B>(set of) wheels</B><BR><I>spoken</I> a car<BR>　*<I>Do you like my new wheels?</I><BR>* <B>wheels within wheels</B><BR><I>spoken</I> used to say that a situation is complicated and difficult to understand because it involves processes and decisions that you know nothing about<BR>* <B>set the wheels in motion/set the wheels turning</B><BR>to make a particular process start<BR>　*<I>It only took one phone call to set the wheels in motion.</I><BR>* <B>a/the big wheel</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>an important person<BR>　*<I>He became a big wheel in the East India Company.</I><BR>→<B>put your shoulder to the wheel</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/shoulder"><U>shoulder</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(8), <B>put a spoke in sb's wheel</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/spoke"><U>spoke</U></A> </B><SUP>2 </SUP>(2), <B>reinvent the wheel</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/reinvent"><U>reinvent</U></A></B></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>wheel</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">wheel<SUP>2</SUP> <I>v</I> <BR>* [T always + adverb/preposition] <B>a)</B> to push something that has wheels somewhere<BR>　*<I>Kate wheeled her bike into the garage.</I><BR><B>b)</B> to move someone or something that is in or on something that has wheels<BR>　*<I>Two nurses were wheeling him into the operating theatre.</I><BR>* [I] <BR>if birds or planes wheel, they fly around in circles<BR>* [I] <BR>to turn around suddenly<BR><B>wheel around</B><BR>　*<I>She wheeled around and started yelling at us.</I><BR>* <B>wheel and deal</B><BR>to do a lot of complicated and sometimes dishonest deals, especially in politics or business<BR><B>wheel in/out</B> [wheel sb/sth⇔in/out] <I>phr v</I><BR>to publicly produce someone or something and use them to help you achieve something<BR>　*<I>Then the prosecution wheeled in a surprise witness.</I><BR>　*<I>The government wheeled out the same old arguments to support its election campaign.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bicycle"><U>bicycle</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bike"><U>bike</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cycle"><U>cycle</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/pedal"><U>pedal</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rack"><U>rack</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/roll"><U>roll</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/roulette%20wheel"><U>roulette wheel</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/steering%20wheel"><U>steering wheel</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/wheel%20around"><U>wheel around</U></A></DIV></DIV>
