---
layout: post
title:  "Fair"
categories: undefined
tag: easy
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">fair<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W2S1</B> /feə US fer/ <I>adj</I>
<HR>
<B>1【reasonable and acceptable】</B><BR><B>2【treating everyone equally】</B><BR><B>3【quite large】</B><BR><B>4【hair/skin】</B><BR><B>5【according to the rules】</B><BR><B>6【level of ability】</B><BR><B>7【weather】</B><BR><B>8 have had more than your fair share of something</B><BR><B>9 give somebody a fair crack of the whip</B><BR><B>10 give somebody/get a fair shake</B><BR><B>11 by fair means or foul</B><BR><B>12 all's fair in love and war</B><BR><B>13【pleasant/attractive】</B><BR><B>14 fair enough</B><BR><B>15 to be fair</B><BR><B>16 be fair!</B><BR><B>17 fair's fair</B><BR><B>18 fair comment</B><BR><B>19 you can't say fairer than that</B><BR><B>20 it's a fair cop</B><BR><B>21 with your own fair hands</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English; Origin: fAger <I>'beautiful'</I>]<BR>*<B>【REASONABLE AND ACCEPTABLE】</B><BR>a fair situation, system, way of treating people, or judgment seems reasonable, acceptable, and right<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/unfair"><U>unfair</U></A><BR>　*<I>All we are asking for is a fair wage.</I><BR>　*<I>£150 is a fair price.</I><BR><B>fair trial/hearing</B><BR>　*<I>the right to a fair trial</I><BR>　*<I>What do you think is the fairest solution?</I><BR>　*<I>The report is a fair summary of the issues facing us.</I><BR><B>it is fair to do sth</B><BR>　*<I>It seems fair to give them a second chance.</I><BR><B>it's only fair (that)</B><BR>(=used to say that it is right to do something)<BR>　*<I>It's only fair that we tell him what's happening.</I><BR><B>it's fair to say (that)</B><BR>(=used when you think what you are saying is correct or reasonable)<BR>　*<I>I think it's fair to say that by then he had lost the support of most of his staff.</I><BR><B>it's not fair on sb</B><BR>　*<I>I can't carry on working such long hours. It's not fair on my family.</I><BR>*<B>【TREATING EVERYONE EQUALLY】</B><BR>treating everyone in a way that is right or equal<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/unfair"><U>unfair</U></A><BR>　*<I>Why does Eric get to go and I don't? <B>It's not fair</B> !</I><BR>　*<I>Life isn't always fair.</I><BR><B>fair to</B><BR>　*<I>The old law wasn't fair to women.</I><BR><B>it's only fair (that)</B><BR>　*<I>You pay him $10 an hour - it's only fair that I should get the same.</I><BR>　*<I>My boss expects a lot - but he's very fair.</I><BR>*<B>【QUITE LARGE】</B><BR><B>a fair size/amount/number/bit/distance etc</B><BR><I>especially BrE</I> quite a large size, number etc<BR>　*<I>I've still got a fair amount of work left to do.</I><BR>　*<I>We had travelled a fair way (=quite a long distance) by lunch time.</I><BR><B>there's a fair chance (that)/of sth</B><BR>(=it is quite likely that something will happen)<BR>　*<I>There's a fair chance we'll be coming over to England this summer.</I><BR>*<B>【HAIR/SKIN】</B><BR>someone who is fair, or who has fair hair or skin, has hair or skin that is very light in colour<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dark"><U>dark</U></A><BR>*<B>【ACCORDING TO THE RULES】</B><BR>a fair fight, game, or election is one that is played or done according to the rules<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/unfair"><U>unfair</U></A><BR>*<B>【LEVEL OF ABILITY】</B><BR>neither particularly good nor particularly bad<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/average"><U>average</U></A><BR>　*<I>Her written work is excellent but her practical work is only fair.</I><BR>*<B>【WEATHER】</B><BR>weather that is fair is pleasant and not windy, rainy etc<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fine"><U>fine</U></A><BR>　*<I>It should be generally fair and warm for the next few days.</I><BR>* <B>have had more than your fair share of sth</B><BR>to have had more of something, especially something unpleasant, than seems reasonable<BR>　*<I>Poor old Alan! He's had more than his fair share of bad luck recently.</I><BR>* <B>give sb a fair crack of the whip</B><BR><I>BrE informal</I> to give someone the opportunity to do something, especially so that they can show that they are able to do it<BR>* <B>give sb/get a fair shake</B><BR><I>AmE informal</I> to treat someone, or to be treated, in a way that gives everyone the same chances as everyone else<BR>　*<I>Women don't always get a fair shake in business.</I><BR>* <B>by fair means or foul</B><BR>using any method to get what you want, including dishonest or illegal methods<BR>* <B>all's fair in love and war</B><BR>used to say that in some situations any method of getting what you want is acceptable<BR>*<B>【PLEASANT/ATTRACTIVE】</B><BR><I>old use or literary</I> pleasant and attractive<BR>　*<I>a fair maiden</I><BR>* <I>spoken</I> <B>fair enough</B><BR><I>especially BrE</I> used to say that you agree with someone's suggestion or that something seems reasonable<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/OK"><U>OK</U></A><BR>　*<I>'I think we should split the bill.' 'Fair enough.'</I><BR>* <I>spoken</I> <B>to be fair</B><BR>used when adding something after someone has been criticized, which helps to explain or excuse what they did<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fairness"><U>in fairness</U></A><BR>　*<I>She should have phoned to tell us what her plans were although, to be fair, she's been very busy.</I><BR>* <I>spoken</I> <B>be fair!</B><BR><I>especially BrE</I> used to tell someone not to be unreasonable or criticize someone too much<BR>　*<I>Now Pat, be fair, the poor girl's trying her hardest!</I><BR>* <I>spoken</I> <B>fair's fair</B><BR>used when you think it is fair that someone should do something, especially because of something that has happened earlier<BR>　*<I>Come on, fair's fair - I paid last time so it's your turn.</I><BR>* <I>spoken</I> <B>fair comment</B><BR><I>BrE</I> used to say that a remark or criticism seems reasonable<BR>* <I>spoken</I> <B>you can't say fairer than that</B><BR><I>BrE</I> used to say that an offer you are making to someone is the best and fairest offer they can possibly get<BR>　*<I>I'll give you £25 for it - you can't say fairer than that, can you?</I><BR>* <I>spoken</I> <B>it's a fair cop</B><BR><I>BrE</I> used humorously to admit that you should not be doing something that someone has caught you doing<BR>* <I>spoken</I> <B>with your own fair hands</B><BR><I>BrE</I> if you do something with your own fair hands, you do it yourself without any help - used humorously<BR>→<B>have a fair idea of sth</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/idea"><U>idea</U></A></B></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>fair</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">fair<SUP>2</SUP> <I>n</I> [C] <BR>[Date: 1200-1300; Language: Old French; Origin: feire, from <I>Latin</I> feriae <I>'holidays'</I>]<BR>* <I>also</I> <B>funfair</B> <I>BrE</I> <BR>a form of outdoor entertainment, at which there are large machines to ride on and games in which you can win prizes<BR>American Equivalent: <B>carnival</B><BR>* <I>AmE</I> an outdoor event, at which there are large machines to ride on, games to play, and sometimes farm animals being judged and sold<BR><B>state/county fair</B><BR>* <B>book/antiques/craft/trade etc fair</B><BR>an event at which people or businesses show and sell their products<BR>　*<I>the Frankfurt Book Fair</I><BR>　*<I>an antiques fair</I><BR>　*<I>a trade fair (=where companies show their newest products)</I> <BR>　*<I>a craft fair (=where people sell handmade products such as jewellery, paintings etc)</I> <BR>* <B>job/careers fair</B><BR>an event where people go to get information about different kinds of jobs<BR>* <I>BrE</I> an outdoor event with games and things to eat and drink, usually organized to get money for a school, club etc<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fete"><U>fête</U></A><BR>* <I>BrE old-fashioned</I> a market where animals and farm products are sold<BR>　*<I>a horse fair</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>fair</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">3</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">fair<SUP>3</SUP> <B>W3S2</B> <I>adv</I> <BR>* <B>win (sth)/beat sb fair and square</B><BR>to win a competition, sports match etc honestly and without cheating<BR>* <B>play fair</B><BR>to do something in a fair and honest way<BR>　*<I>In international trade, very few countries play fair.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/affair"><U>affair</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/average"><U>average</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bazaar"><U>bazaar</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bright"><U>bright</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/clear"><U>clear</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/exposition"><U>exposition</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/festival"><U>festival</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fete"><U>fete</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/honest"><U>honest</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/impartial"><U>impartial</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/just"><U>just</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/light"><U>light</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/market"><U>market</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/mediocre"><U>mediocre</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/pale"><U>pale</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/pleasant"><U>pleasant</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/right"><U>right</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/square"><U>square</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/sunny"><U>sunny</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/whitish"><U>whitish</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/foul"><U>foul</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/partial"><U>partial</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/unfair"><U>unfair</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/unjust"><U>unjust</U></A></DIV></DIV>
