---
layout: post
title:  "Corner"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">cor<B>·</B>ner<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W2S1</B> /ˈkɔːnə US ˈkɔːrnər/ <I>n</I>
<HR>
<B>1【where two lines/edges meet】</B><BR><B>2【road】</B><BR><B>3【corner of a room/box】</B><BR><B>4【mouth/eye】</B><BR><B>5【difficult situation】</B><BR><B>6【sports】</B><BR><B>7【distant place】</B><BR><B>8 see something out of the corner of your eye</B><BR><B>9 (just) around/round the corner</B><BR><B>10 turn the corner</B><BR><B>11 fight your corner/fight somebody's corner</B><BR><B>12 cut corners</B><BR><B>13 cut a corner</B><BR><B>14 have/get a corner on something</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1200-1300; Language: Old French; Origin: cornere, from corne <I>'horn, corner'</I>, from <I>Latin</I> cornu <I>'horn, point'</I>]<BR>*<B>【WHERE TWO LINES/EDGES MEET】</B> [C] <BR>the point at which two lines or edges meet<BR>　*<I>He pulled a dirty handkerchief out by its corner and waved it at me.</I><BR><B>corner of</B><BR>　*<I>Their initials were sewn on the corner of every pillow.</I><BR><B>in the corner (of sth)</B><BR>　*<I>The TV station's name appears in the corner of the screen.</I><BR><B>on the corner (of sth)</B><BR>　*<I>Jessie sat on the corner of her bed.</I><BR><B>three-cornered/four-cornered etc</B><BR>　*<I>a three-cornered hat</I><BR>*<B>【ROAD】</B> [C usually singular]<BR><B>a)</B> the point where two roads meet<BR><B>corner of</B><BR>　*<I>Ruth walked with her as far as the corner of the road.</I><BR><B>on the corner</B><BR>　*<I>The hotel is on the corner of 5th and Maine.</I><BR><B>at the corner</B><BR>　*<I>Several women were standing at the corner, talking to two police officers.</I><BR>　*<I>kids hanging around on <B>street corners</B> </I><BR><B>b)</B> a point in a road where it turns sharply<BR>　*<I>He had tried to <B>take</B> the <B>corner</B> too quickly, and had lost control of the car.</I><BR>　*<I>The petrol station is <B>around the corner</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【CORNER OF A ROOM/BOX】</B> [C usually singular]<BR>the place inside a room or box where two walls or sides meet<BR><B>in the corner (of sth)</B><BR>　*<I>There was an old piano in the corner of the living room.</I><BR><B>corner table/seat</B><BR>　*<I>I reserved a corner table in my favourite restaurant.</I><BR>*<B>【MOUTH/EYE】</B> [C] <BR>the sides of your mouth or eyes<BR>　*<I>A tear appeared in the corner of his eye.</I><BR>*<B>【DIFFICULT SITUATION】</B> [singular]<BR>a difficult situation that you cannot easily escape from<BR><B>back/box/force/push sb into a corner</B><BR>(=put someone into a situation where they do not have any choices about what to do)<BR>　*<I>Don't let your enemies back you into a corner.</I><BR>　*<I>The writers have <B>painted themselves into a corner</B> by killing off all the most popular characters in the first series.</I><BR>　*<I>He found himself in a <B>tight corner</B> (=a very difficult situation) looking for a way to get out.</I><BR>*<B>【SPORTS】</B> [C] <B>a)</B> a kick that one team is allowed to take from one of the corners of their opponent's end of the field<BR><B>b)</B> any of the four corners of the area in which the competitors fight in <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/boxing"><U>boxing</U></A> or <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/wrestling"><U>wrestling</U></A>, especially one of the two corners where the competitors go in between <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/round"><U>rounds</U></A><BR>*<B>【DISTANT PLACE】</B> [C] <BR>a distant place in another part of the world<BR><B>corner of</B><BR>　*<I>She's gone off to work in some remote corner of the world.</I><BR>　*<I>People came from <B>the four corners of the world</B> (=from lots of different places) to make America their new home.</I><BR>* <B>see sth out of the corner of your eye</B><BR>to notice something accidentally, without turning your head towards it or looking for it<BR>　*<I>Out of the corner of her eye she saw the dog running towards her.</I><BR>* <B>(just) around/round the corner</B><BR><B>a)</B> near<BR>　*<I>There's a bus stop just around the corner.</I><BR><B>b)</B> likely to happen soon<BR>　*<I>Economic recovery is just around the corner.</I><BR>* <B>turn the corner</B><BR>to start to become successful or to feel better or happier, after a time when you have been unsuccessful, ill, or unhappy<BR>　*<I>We knew Dad had turned the corner when he started complaining about the hospital food.</I><BR>* <B>fight your corner/fight sb's corner</B><BR><I>BrE</I> to try very hard to defend yourself in a discussion or argument, or to do this for someone else<BR>　*<I>My line manager supports me, and says she's willing to fight my corner.</I><BR>* <B>cut corners</B><BR>to save time, money, or energy by doing things quickly and not as carefully as you should<BR>　*<I>Don't try to cut corners when you're decorating.</I><BR>* <B>cut a corner</B><BR>to go across the corner of something, especially a road, instead of staying next to the edges<BR>* <B>have/get a corner on sth</B><BR>to be the only company, organization etc that has a particular product, ability, advantage etc<BR>　*<I>London does not have a corner on film festivals.</I><BR>　*<I>The company admitted reducing prices to <B>get a corner on the market</B> .</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/kitty-corner"><U>kitty-corner</U></A></B></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>corner</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">corner<SUP>2</SUP> <I>v</I> <BR>* [T] <BR>to force a person or animal into a position from which they cannot easily escape<BR>　*<I>Once the dog was cornered, he began to growl.</I><BR>* [T] <BR>to go to someone who is trying to avoid you, and make them listen to you<BR>　*<I>Later, he cornered Jenny on the stairs and asked her what was wrong.</I><BR>* <B>corner the market</B><BR>to gain control of the whole supply of a particular kind of goods<BR>　*<I>They've been trying to corner the market by buying up all the wheat in sight.</I><BR>* [I] <BR>if a car corners, it goes around a corner or bend in the road</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/box"><U>box</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/niche"><U>niche</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/nook"><U>nook</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/quoin"><U>quoin</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/recess"><U>recess</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/recession"><U>recession</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/street%20corner"><U>street corner</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/tree"><U>tree</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/turning%20point"><U>turning point</U></A></DIV></DIV>
