---
layout: post
title:  "Claim"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">claim<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W1S1</B> /kleɪm/ <I>v</I>
<HR>
<B>1【truth】</B><BR><B>2【money】</B><BR><B>3【legal right】</B><BR><B>4【death】</B><BR><B>5【attention】</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1300-1400; Language: Old French; Origin: clamer, from <I>Latin</I> clamare <I>'to cry out, shout'</I>]<BR>*<B>【TRUTH】</B> [T]<BR>to state that something is true, even though it has not been proved<BR><B>claim (that)</B><BR>　*<I>The company claims that their product 'makes you thin without dieting'.</I><BR><B>claim to do/be sth</B><BR>　*<I>No responsible therapist will claim to cure your insomnia.</I><BR>　*<I>I <B>don't claim to be</B> a feminist, but I'd like to see more women in managerial posts.</I><BR><B>claim to have done sth</B><BR>　*<I>Two young girls claim to have seen the fairies.</I><BR><B>claim responsibility/credit (for sth)</B><BR>(=say officially that you are responsible for something that has happened)<BR>　*<I>The group claimed responsibility for a series of bombings.</I><BR>　*<I>Opposition leaders will <B>claim victory</B> if the turnout is lower than 50%.</I><BR><B>claim sb/sth as sth</B><BR>　*<I>A letter appeared in The Times claiming Fleming as the discoverer of penicillin.</I><BR>*<B>【MONEY】</B> [I and T]<BR>to officially demand or receive money from an organization because you have a right to it<BR><B>claim sth back</B><BR>　*<I>He should be able to claim the price of the ticket back.</I><BR><B>claim on</B> <I>BrE</I><BR>　*<I>You can claim on the insurance if you have an accident while on holiday.</I><BR><B>claim benefit/an allowance/damages etc</B><BR>　*<I>If you're still not satisfied, you may be able to <B>claim compensation</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【LEGAL RIGHT】</B> [T]<BR>to state that you have a right to take or have something that is legally yours<BR>　*<I>The majority of those who <B>claim asylum</B> are genuine refugees.</I><BR>　*<I>Lost property can be claimed between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m.</I><BR>*<B>【DEATH】</B> [T]<BR>if a war, accident etc claims lives, people die because of it - used especially in news reports<BR>　*<I>The earthquake has so far claimed over 3000 lives.</I><BR>*<B>【ATTENTION】</B> [T]<BR>if something claims your attention, you notice and consider it carefully<BR>　*<I>The military conflict continues to claim our undivided attention.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>claim</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">claim<SUP>2</SUP> <B>W1S2</B> <I>n</I> [C]
<HR>
<B>1【truth】</B><BR><B>2【money】</B><BR><B>3【rights】</B><BR><B>4 stake your claim (for something)</B><BR><B>5 somebody's/something's claim to fame</B><BR><B>6【land】</B>
<HR>
*<B>【TRUTH】</B><BR>a statement that something is true, even though it has not been proved<BR><B>claim that</B><BR>　*<I>Gould rejected claims that he had acted irresponsibly.</I><BR><B>false/extravagant/dubious etc claims</B><BR>　*<I>firms that make false claims about their products</I><BR>　*<I>They <B>made claims</B> they couln't live up to.</I><BR>　*<I>the <B>competing claims</B> of scientists</I><BR><B>dispute/deny/reject a claim</B><BR>　*<I>The foreign affairs department has denied claims that the men were tortured.</I><BR>　*<I>Evidence to <B>support</B> these <B>claims</B> is still lacking.</I><BR><B>claim to do/be sth</B><BR>　*<I>his claim to be the rightful owner of the painting</I><BR>　*<I>I <B>make no claim</B> to understand the complexities of the situation.</I><BR>*<B>【MONEY】</B><BR><B>a)</B> an official request for money that you think you have a right to<BR><B>claim for</B><BR>　*<I>claims for compensation</I><BR><B>reject/uphold/lose etc a claim</B><BR>　*<I>A disabled man has lost his claim for unfair dismissal.</I><BR><B>make/put in/file a claim</B><BR>　*<I>All claims should be made in writing.</I><BR><B>pay/wage claim</B><BR>(=a request from workers for more money)<BR>　*<I>Fill in and return the <B>claim form</B> as soon as it arrives.</I><BR><B>b)</B> the sum of money you request when you make a claim<BR>　*<I>The insurance company cannot <B>meet</B> (=pay) such enormous <B>claims</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【RIGHTS】</B><BR>a right to do something or to have something, especially because it belongs to you or because you deserve it<BR><B>claim to/on</B><BR>　*<I>Surely they <B>have a rightful claim</B> on their father's land?</I><BR>　*<I>The Maldives <B>pressed</B> its <B>claim</B> to hold next year's summit.</I><BR>　*<I>Philip feared Edward would <B>lay claim to</B> the Scottish crown.</I><BR>　*<I>the <B>competing claims</B> of parents and teachers</I><BR><B>have a claim on sb's time/attention etc</B><BR>　*<I>A woman who has given a man children will always have some claim on his love.</I><BR>* <B>stake your claim (for sth)</B><BR>to say that you have a right to own or do something, especially when other people also say they have a right to it<BR>　*<I>Tickets are on a 'first come, first served' basis, so stake your claim now.</I><BR>* <B>sb's/sth's claim to fame</B><BR>a place or person's claim to fame is the reason why they are famous - often used humorously to mention something that is not very important<BR>　*<I>My main claim to fame is that I once shook Elvis's hand.</I><BR>*<B>【LAND】</B><BR>something such as a piece of land that contains valuable minerals</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/demand"><U>demand</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/due"><U>due</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/interest"><U>interest</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/require"><U>require</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/right"><U>right</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/title"><U>title</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/disclaim"><U>disclaim</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/surrender"><U>surrender</U></A></DIV></DIV>
