---
layout: post
title:  "Light"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">light<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W1S1</B> /laɪt/ <I>n</I>
<HR>
<B>1【natural/artificial light】</B><BR><B>2【lamp/electric light etc】</B><BR><B>3【traffic control】</B><BR><B>4【on a vehicle】</B><BR><B>5 first light</B><BR><B>6 be/stand in somebody's light</B><BR><B>7【for a cigarette】</B><BR><B>8【in somebody's eyes】</B><BR><B>9 set light to something</B><BR><B>10 come to light</B><BR><B>11 throw/shed/cast light on something</B><BR><B>12 in the light of something</B><BR><B>13 in a new/different/bad etc light</B><BR><B>14 see the light</B><BR><B>15 see the light (of day)</B><BR><B>16 light at the end of the tunnel</B><BR><B>17 have your name in lights</B><BR><B>18 go/be out like a light</B><BR><B>19 a leading light in/of something</B><BR><B>20 the light of somebody's life</B><BR><B>21【window】</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English; Origin: leoht]<BR>*<B>【NATURAL/ARTIFICIAL LIGHT】</B><BR><B>a)</B> [U] <BR>the energy from the sun, a flame, a lamp etc that allows you to see things<BR>　*<I>The morning light came streaming in through the windows.</I><BR>　*<I>She opened the curtains to let in the light.</I><BR>　*<I>It was late afternoon and the light was beginning to fade.</I><BR>　*<I>a pattern of light and shade</I><BR><B>in/by the light of sth</B><BR>　*<I>Eveything looked grey in the dim light of the oil lamp.</I><BR>　*<I>We sat and talked by the light of the fire.</I><BR><B>in/into the light</B><BR>　*<I>The man moved forward into the light.</I><BR><B>good/strong/bright light</B><BR>　*<I>We'll need good light if we want to take the photographs outside.</I><BR><B>poor/dim/fading light</B><BR>　*<I>In the fading light she could just make out the shape of a tractor.</I><BR><B>soft/warm light</B><BR>　*<I>The valley was bathed in the soft light of dawn.</I><BR><B>cold/harsh light</B><BR>　*<I>the cold, harsh light of a winter afternoon</I><BR><B>blinding/dazzling light</B><BR>(=extremely bright light)<BR>　*<I>We saw a sudden flash of blinding light.</I><BR><B>a beam/ray/shaft of light</B><BR>(=a thin line of light)<BR>　*<I>The clouds parted and a beam of light fell on the field.</I><BR><B>b)</B> [C] <BR>a particular type of light, with its own particular colour, level of brightness etc<BR>　*<I>The colours look different in different lights.</I><BR>*<B>【LAMP/ELECTRIC LIGHT ETC】</B> [C] <B>a)</B> an electric light<BR>　*<I>Ahead of us we could see the lights of the city.</I><BR>　*<I>We're having a mixture of wall lights and ceiling lights in different parts of the house.</I><BR><B>turn/switch/put on a light</B><BR>　*<I>I switched on the light in the bedroom.</I><BR><B>turn/switch/put off a light</B><BR>　*<I>Don't forget to switch the lights off when you go out.</I><BR><B>turn/switch/put out a light</B><BR>　*<I>Can you turn the light out downstairs?</I><BR><B>a light is/comes/goes on</B><BR>　*<I>The lights in the office were still on.</I><BR>　*<I>The street lights were just beginning to come on.</I><BR>　*<I>He left a light on in the kitchen.</I><BR><B>a light is off/out</B><BR>　*<I>Make sure all the lights are off when you leave.</I><BR>　*<I>Suddenly all the <B>lights</B> in the house <B>went out</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>Can you <B>turn the light down</B> (=make it less bright) a bit?</I><BR>→<B>the bright lights</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bright"><U>bright</U></A></B><BR><B>b)</B> something such as a lamp that you can carry to give you light<BR>　*<I>Shine a light over here, will you?</I><BR>*<B>【TRAFFIC CONTROL】</B> [C usually plural]<BR>one of a set of red, green, and yellow lights used for controlling traffic<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/traffic%20lights"><U>traffic lights</U></A><BR>　*<I>We waited for the lights to change.</I><BR>　*<I>Eventually the lights turned green.</I><BR>　*<I>The driver had failed to stop at a red light.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/green%20light"><U>green light</U></A>, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/red-light%20district"><U>red-light district</U></A></B><BR>*<B>【ON A VEHICLE】</B> [C usually plural]<BR>one of the lights on a car, bicycle etc that help you to see at night<BR>　*<I>He was dazzled by the lights of oncoming traffic.</I><BR>　*<I>You've left your lights on.</I><BR>* <B>first light</B><BR><I>literary</I> the first light that appears in the morning sky<BR>　*<I>We set out at first light the next day.</I><BR>* <B>be/stand in sb's light</B><BR>to prevent someone from getting all the light they need to see or do something<BR>　*<I>Could you move to the left a little - you're standing in my light.</I><BR>*<B>【FOR A CIGARETTE】</B><BR><B>a light</B><BR>a match or something else to light a cigarette<BR>　*<I>Have you got a light, please?</I><BR>*<B>【IN SOMEBODY'S EYES】</B> [singular]<BR><I>literary</I> an expression in someone's eyes that shows an emotion or intention<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/gleam"><U>gleam</U></A><BR>　*<I>There was a murderous light in his eyes.</I><BR>* <B>set light to sth</B><BR>to make something start burning<BR>　*<I>The candle fell over and set light to the barn.</I><BR>* <B>come to light</B><BR><B>be brought to light</B> <BR>if new information comes to light, it becomes known<BR>　*<I>This evidence did not come to light until after the trial.</I><BR>　*<I>The mistake was only brought to light some years later.</I><BR>* <B>throw/shed/cast light on sth</B><BR>to provide new information that makes a difficult subject or problem easier to understand<BR>　*<I>Melanie was able to shed some light on the situation.</I><BR>　*<I>These discoveries may throw new light on the origins of the universe.</I><BR>* <B>in the light of sth</B><BR><I>BrE</I> <B>in light of sth</B> <I>AmE</I> <BR>if you do or decide something in the light of something else, you do it after considering that thing<BR>　*<I>In light of this tragic event, we have cancelled the 4th of July celebrations.</I><BR>* <B>in a new/different/bad etc light</B><BR>if someone or something is seen or shown in a particular light, people can see that particular part of their character<BR>　*<I>I suddenly saw my father in a new light.</I><BR>　*<I>This incident will put the company in a very bad light.</I><BR>* <B>see the light</B><BR><B>a)</B> to suddenly understand something<BR>　*<I>At last doctors have seen the light!</I><BR><B>b)</B> to begin to believe in a religion very strongly<BR>* <B>see the light (of day)</B><BR><B>a)</B> if an object sees the light of day, it is taken from the place where it has been hidden, and becomes publicly known<BR>　*<I>Some of these documents will probably never see the light of day.</I><BR><B>b)</B> if a law, decision etc sees the light of day, it comes into existence for the first time<BR>* <B>light at the end of the tunnel</B><BR>something that gives you hope for the future after a long and difficult period<BR>　*<I>It's been a hard few months, but we're finally beginning to see the light at the end of the tunnel.</I><BR>* <B>have your name in lights</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to be successful and famous in theatre or films<BR>* <B>go/be out like a light</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to go to sleep very quickly because you are very tired<BR>　*<I>I went straight to bed and went out like a light.</I><BR>* <B>a leading light in/of sth</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>someone who is important in a particular organization<BR>　*<I>She's one of the leading lights of the local dramatic society.</I><BR>* <B>the light of sb's life</B><BR>the person that someone loves more than anyone else<BR>　*<I>Her son was the light of her life.</I><BR>*<B>【WINDOW】</B> [C] <BR>a window in a roof or wall that allows light into a room<BR>→<B>hide your light under a bushel</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bushel"><U>bushel</U></A>,be all sweetness and light</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/sweetness"><U>sweetness</U></A> </B>, <B>in the cold light of day</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cold"><U>cold</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(9)</DIV>
<DIV style="WIDTH: 100%; MARGIN: 5px 0px 0px">
<DIV style="FLOAT: left; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">&nbsp;</DIV>
<DIV style="WIDTH: 100%; OVERFLOW-X: hidden">
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>light</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> &nbsp;</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">light<SUP>2</SUP> <B>W1S1</B> <I>adj comparative</I> <B>lighter</B> <I>superlative</I> <B>lightest</B>
<HR>
<B>1【colour】</B><BR><B>2【daylight】</B><BR><B>3【rooms】</B><BR><B>4【not heavy】</B><BR><B>5【not great】</B><BR><B>6【clothes】</B><BR><B>7【wind】</B><BR><B>8【sound】</B><BR><B>9【touch】</B><BR><B>10【work/exercise】</B><BR><B>11【food】</B><BR><B>12【punishment】</B><BR><B>13 a light smoker/drinker/eater etc</B><BR><B>14 light sleep/doze</B><BR><B>15 a light sleeper</B><BR><B>16【not serious】</B><BR><B>17 light relief</B><BR><B>18 make light of something</B><BR><B>19 on a lighter note/in a lighter vein</B><BR><B>20 make light work of something</B><BR><B>21 be light on your feet</B><BR><B>22 a light heart</B><BR><B>23【soil】</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English; Origin: leoht]<BR>*<B>【COLOUR】</B><BR>a light colour is pale and not dark<BR>　*<I>You look nice in light colours.</I><BR><B>light blue/green/grey etc</B><BR>　*<I>She had blue eyes and light brown hair.</I><BR>　*<I>I wanted a lighter yellow paint for the walls.</I><BR>*<B>【DAYLIGHT】</B><BR><B>it is/gets light</B><BR>if it is light, there is the natural light of day<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dark"><U>dark</U></A><BR>　*<I>We'll keep on looking while it's still light.</I><BR>　*<I>It was seven o'clock and just starting to <B>get light</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【ROOMS】</B><BR>a room that is light has plenty of light in it, especially from the sun<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dark"><U>dark</U></A><BR>　*<I>The kitchen was light and spacious.</I><BR>　*<I>The office was a big light room at the back of the house.</I><BR><BR>*<B>【NOT HEAVY】</B><BR>not very heavy<BR>　*<I>You can carry this bag - it's fairly light.</I><BR>　*<I>You should wear light, comfortable shoes.</I><BR>　*<I>The truck was quite light and easy to drive.</I><BR>　*<I>She was <B>as light as a feather</B> (=very light) to carry.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/lighten"><U>lighten</U></A>, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/lightweight"><U>lightweight</U></A> </B><SUP>2 </SUP><BR>*<B>【NOT GREAT】</B><BR>if something is light, there is not very much of it or it is not very great<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/heavy"><U>heavy</U></A><BR>　*<I>Traffic is lighter before 8 a.m.</I><BR>　*<I>A light rain began to fall.</I><BR>　*<I>She was wearing only light make-up.</I><BR>　*<I>people who have suffered only light exposure to radiation</I><BR>*<B>【CLOTHES】</B><BR>light clothes are thin and not very warm<BR>　*<I>She took a light sweater in case the evening was cool.</I><BR>　*<I>a light summer coat</I><BR>*<B>【WIND】</B><BR>a light wind is blowing without much force<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/strong"><U>strong</U></A><BR>　*<I>Leaves were blowing about in the light wind.</I><BR>　*<I>There was a light easterly breeze.</I><BR>*<B>【SOUND】</B><BR>a light sound is very quiet<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/loud"><U>loud</U></A><BR>　*<I>There was a light tap at the door.</I><BR>　*<I>Her voice was light and pleasant.</I><BR>*<B>【TOUCH】</B><BR>a light touch is gentle and soft<BR>　*<I>She gave him a light kiss on the cheek.</I><BR>　*<I>He felt a light tap on his shoulder.</I><BR>*<B>【WORK/EXERCISE】</B><BR>light work is not hard or tiring<BR>　*<I>I found him some light work to do.</I><BR>　*<I>She only has a few light duties around the house.</I><BR>　*<I>The doctor has advised me to take regular light exercise.</I><BR>*<B>【FOOD】</B><BR><B>a)</B> food or drink that is light either does not have a strong taste or does not make you feel full very quickly, for example because it does not contain very much fat, sugar, or alcohol<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rich"><U>rich</U></A><BR>　*<I>We had a light white wine with the fish.</I><BR>　*<I>a light, refreshing dessert</I><BR>　*<I>a new light cheese spread with virtually no fat</I><BR><B>b)</B> a light meal is a small meal<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/big"><U>big</U></A><BR>　*<I>I had a light lunch in town.</I><BR>　*<I>a delicious light snack</I><BR><B>c)</B> food that is light contains a lot of air<BR>　*<I>a type of light, sweet bread</I><BR>　*<I>Beat the mixture until it is light and fluffy.</I><BR>*<B>【PUNISHMENT】</B><BR>a light punishment is not very severe<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/harsh"><U>harsh</U></A><BR>　*<I>a fairly light sentence</I><BR>* <B>a light smoker/drinker/eater etc</B><BR>someone who does not smoke etc very much<BR>* <B>light sleep/doze</B><BR>a sleep from which you wake up easily<BR>　*<I>I fell into a light sleep.</I><BR>* <B>a light sleeper</B><BR>someone who wakes up easily if there is any noise etc<BR>　*<I>She's quite a light sleeper.</I><BR>*<B>【NOT SERIOUS】</B><BR>not serious in meaning, style, or manner, and only intended to entertain people<BR>　*<I>His speech gradually became lighter in tone.</I><BR>　*<I>an evening of light music</I><BR>　*<I>It's a really good book if you want a bit of <B>light reading</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>The show looks at some of the lighter moments from the world of politics.</I><BR>* <B>light relief</B><BR>something that is pleasant and amusing after something sad or serious<BR>　*<I>I'm glad you've arrived - we could all do with a little light relief!</I><BR>* <B>make light of sth</B><BR>to joke about something or treat it as not being very serious, especially when it is important<BR>　*<I>She tried to make light of the situation, but I could tell that she was worried.</I><BR>* <B>on a lighter note/in a lighter vein</B><BR>used when you are going to say something less sad or serious<BR>　*<I>On a lighter note, the concert raised over £300 for school funds.</I><BR>* <B>make light work of sth</B><BR>to do something or deal with something quickly and easily<BR>　*<I>A freezer and microwave oven can make light work of cooking.</I><BR>* <B>be light on your feet</B><BR>to be able to move quickly and gracefully<BR>　*<I>She's very agile and light on her feet.</I><BR>* <B>a light heart</B><BR><I>literary</I> someone who has a light heart feels happy and not worried<BR>　*<I>I set off for work with a light heart.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/light-hearted"><U>light-hearted</U></A></B><BR>*<B>【SOIL】</B><BR>light soil is easy to break into small pieces<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/heavy"><U>heavy</U></A><BR>　*<I>Carrots grow well in light soils.</I><BR><B>&gt;lightness</B> <I>n</I> [U] <BR>　*<I>a lightness of touch</I></DIV>
<DIV style="WIDTH: 100%; MARGIN: 5px 0px 0px">
<DIV style="FLOAT: left; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">&nbsp;</DIV>
<DIV style="WIDTH: 100%; OVERFLOW-X: hidden">
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>light</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">3</SUP> &nbsp;</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">light<SUP>3</SUP> <B>W3S3</B> <I>v past tense and past participle</I> <B>lit</B> <I>or</I> <B>lighted</B> <BR>[Language: Old English; Origin: lihtan]<BR>* [I and T] <BR>to start to burn, or to make something start to burn<BR>　*<I>He stopped to light a cigarette.</I><BR>　*<I>I lit the fire and poured a drink.</I><BR>　*<I>I couldn't get the candles to light.</I><BR>* [T usually passive] <BR>to provide light for a place<BR>　*<I>The room was lit by one large, central light.</I><BR>　*<I>The porch is always <B>well lit</B> at night.</I><BR>　*<I>The kitchen was warm and <B>brightly lit</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>a <B>poorly lit</B> car park</I><BR>* <B>light the/sb's way</B><BR>to provide light for someone while they are going somewhere<BR>　*<I>We had only a few torches between us to light the way.</I><BR><B>light on/upon</B> [light on/upon sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>*to notice or find something by chance<BR>　*<I>His eye lit on a ruby ring.</I><BR>　*<I>I thought I might have lit upon an ancient manuscript.</I><BR>*if a bird or insect lights on something, it stops flying and stands on it<BR><B>light out</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>to run away, especially because you are afraid<BR><B>light up</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>* <B>light sth⇔up</B><BR>to give light to a place or to shine light on something<BR>　*<I>The flames lit up the sky.</I><BR>　*<I>The fountain is lit up at night.</I><BR>*to become bright with light or colour<BR>　*<I>At night the harbour lights up.</I><BR>　*<I>As the screen lit up, he typed in his password.</I><BR>*<B>a)</B> if someone's face or eyes light up, they show pleasure, excitement etc<BR><B>light up with</B><BR>　*<I>His eyes lit up with laughter.</I><BR>　*<I>Her face lit up with pleasure.</I><BR><B>b) light sth⇔up</B><BR>to make someone's face or eyes show pleasure or excitement<BR>　*<I>Suddenly a smile lit up her face.</I><BR>　*<I>A mischievous gleam lit up her eyes.</I><BR>* <I>informal</I> to light a cigarette<BR>　*<I>I watched Paul light up again.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="WIDTH: 100%; MARGIN: 5px 0px 0px">
<DIV style="FLOAT: left; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">&nbsp;</DIV>
<DIV style="WIDTH: 100%; OVERFLOW-X: hidden">
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>light</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">4</SUP> &nbsp;</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">light<SUP>4</SUP> <I>adv</I> <BR>→<B>travel light</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/travel"><U>travel</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(1)</DIV>
