---
layout: post
title:  "Treat"
categories: undefined
tag: good
word_excerpt: She treats me like one of the family.
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">treat<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W1S2</B> /triːt/ <I>v</I> [T]
<HR>
<B>1【behave towards somebody/something】</B><BR><B>2【deal with something】</B><BR><B>3【illness/injury】</B><BR><B>4【buy something for somebody】</B><BR><B>5【protect/clean】</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1200-1300; Language: Old French; Origin: traitier, from <I>Latin</I> tractare; <B>TRACTABLE</B>]<BR>*<B>【BEHAVE TOWARDS SOMEBODY/SOMETHING】</B> [always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to behave towards someone or something in a particular way<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/treatment"><U>treatment</U></A> <B>treat sb like/as sth</B><BR>　*<I>She treats me like one of the family.</I><BR>　*<I>Penny doesn't think her co-workers treat her as an equal.</I><BR>　*<I>He treated his automobiles almost as tenderly as he did his wife.</I><BR><B>badly treated/well treated</B><BR>　*<I>The prisoners were well treated by their guards.</I><BR><B>treat sb with respect/contempt/courtesy etc</B><BR>　*<I>Despite her seniority, Margot was never treated with much respect.</I><BR><B>treat sb like dirt/a dog</B><BR>(=treat someone unkindly and without respect)<BR>　*<I>I don't know why he stays with her - she treats him like dirt.</I><BR>*<B>【DEAL WITH SOMETHING】</B> [always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to deal with, regard, or consider something in a particular way<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/treatment"><U>treatment</U></A> <B>treat sth as sth</B><BR>　*<I>Please treat this information as completely confidential.</I><BR>　*<I>She treats everything I say as a joke.</I><BR><B>treat sth favourably/seriously/carefully etc</B><BR>　*<I>Any complaint about safety standards must be treated very seriously.</I><BR>*<B>【ILLNESS/INJURY】</B><BR>to try to cure an illness or injury by using drugs, hospital care, operations etc<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/treatment"><U>treatment</U></A><BR>　*<I>It was difficult to treat patients because of a shortage of medicine.</I><BR><B>treat sb with sth</B><BR>　*<I>Nowadays, malaria can be treated with drugs.</I><BR>*<B>【BUY SOMETHING FOR SOMEBODY】</B><BR>to buy or do something special for someone that you know they will enjoy<BR><B>treat sb to sth</B><BR>　*<I>We treated Mom to lunch at the Savoy.</I><BR>　*<I>I <B>treated myself</B> to a new dress.</I><BR>*<B>【PROTECT/CLEAN】</B><BR>to put a special substance on something or use a chemical process in order to protect, clean, or preserve it<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/treatment"><U>treatment</U></A><BR>　*<I>sewage treated so that it can be used as fertilizer</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/trick%20or%20treat"><U>trick or treat</U></A></B></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>treat</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">treat<SUP>2</SUP> <I>n</I> <BR>* [C] <BR>something special that you give someone or do for them because you know they will enjoy it<BR><B>as a treat</B><BR>　*<I>Steven took his son to a cricket match as a birthday treat.</I><BR>* [singular] <BR>an event that gives you a lot of pleasure and is usually unexpected<BR>　*<I>When we were kids, a trip to the beach was a <B>real treat</B> .</I><BR>* [C] <BR>a special food that tastes good, especially one that you do not eat very often<BR>　*<I>The cafe serves an assortment of gourmet treats.</I><BR>* <B>my treat</B><BR><I>spoken</I> used to tell someone that you will pay for something such as a meal for them<BR>　*<I>Let's go out to lunch - my treat.</I><BR>* <B>go down a treat</B><BR><I>BrE informal</I> if something goes down a treat, people like it very much<BR>　*<I>That new vegetarian restaurant seems to be going down a treat.</I><BR>* <B>look/work a treat</B><BR><I>BrE informal</I> to look very good or work very well<BR>　*<I>The sports ground looked a treat, with all the flags flying.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/attend"><U>attend</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/consider"><U>consider</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/deal%20with"><U>deal with</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/delight"><U>delight</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/doctor"><U>doctor</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/enjoyment"><U>enjoyment</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/handle"><U>handle</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/minister%20to"><U>minister to</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/nurse"><U>nurse</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/pleasure"><U>pleasure</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/regard"><U>regard</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/think%20of"><U>think of</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/thrill"><U>thrill</U></A></DIV></DIV>
