---
layout: post
title:  "Touch"
categories: undefined
tag: easy
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">touch<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W2S2</B> /tʌtʃ/ <I>v</I>
<HR>
<B>1【feel】</B><BR><B>2【no space between】</B><BR><B>3 touch something to something</B><BR><B>4【affect somebody's feelings】</B><BR><B>5【have an effect】</B><BR><B>6【use】</B><BR><B>7 not touch something</B><BR><B>8 not touch somebody/something</B><BR><B>9【deal with somebody/something】</B><BR><B>10【reach an amount】</B><BR><B>11【hit/kick】</B><BR><B>12 not touch something/somebody (with a bargepole)</B><BR><B>13 be touched with something</B><BR><B>14【expression】</B><BR><B>15【relate to something】</B><BR><B>16【light】</B><BR><B>17 nothing/no one can touch somebody/something</B><BR><B>18 touch base (with somebody)</B><BR><B>19 touch bottom</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>touch down</B><BR>　<B>touch somebody for something</B><BR>　<B>touch something⇔off</B><BR>　<B>touch on/upon something</B><BR>　<B>touch somebody/something⇔up</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1200-1300; Language: Old French; Origin: tuchier, from <I>Vulgar Latin</I> toccare <I>'to knock, hit a bell, touch'</I>; from the sound]<BR>*<B>【FEEL】</B> [T]<BR>to put your hand, finger etc on someone or something<BR>　*<I>She reached out to touch his arm.</I><BR>　*<I>If your house has been burgled, you shouldn't touch anything until the police arrive.</I><BR>　*<I>'Don't touch me!' she yelled.</I><BR><B>touch sb on the arm/leg etc</B><BR>　*<I>A hand touched her on the shoulder.</I><BR>*<B>【NO SPACE BETWEEN】</B> [I and T]<BR>if two things touch, or one thing touches another thing, they reach each other so that there is no space between them<BR>　*<I>As our glasses touched, he said 'Cheers!'</I><BR>　*<I>Her dress was so long that it was touching the ground.</I><BR>* <B>touch sth to sth</B><BR><I>literary</I> to move something so that it reaches something else with no space between the two things<BR>　*<I>She touched the handkerchief to her nose.</I><BR>　*<I>He touched his lips to her hair.</I><BR>*<B>【AFFECT SOMEBODY'S FEELINGS】</B> [T]<BR>to affect someone's emotions, especially by making them feel sympathy or sadness<BR>　*<I>Her plight has <B>touched the hearts</B> of people around the world.</I><BR>　*<I>She could sense his concern and it touched her.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/touched"><U>touched</U></A>, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/touching"><U>touching</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP><BR>*<B>【HAVE AN EFFECT】</B> [T]<BR>to have an effect on someone or something, especially by changing or influencing them<BR>　*<I>He has touched the lives of many people.</I><BR>　*<I>Unemployment remains an evil that touches the whole community.</I><BR>　*<I>He <B>was</B> often <B>touched by</B> doubt (=doubt affected him) .</I><BR>*<B>【USE】</B> [T usually in negatives]<BR>to use or handle something<BR>　*<I>The law doesn't allow him to touch any of the money.</I><BR>　*<I>It's a long time since I've touched a piano.</I><BR>* <B>not touch sth</B><BR><B>a)</B> to not eat or drink something<BR>　*<I>What's wrong? You've hardly touched your food.</I><BR>　*<I>My grandfather was an alcoholic but I <B>never touch the stuff</B> (=never drink alcohol) .</I><BR><B>b)</B> to not deal with something that you should deal with<BR>　*<I>I brought home loads of work, but I haven't touched any of it yet.</I><BR>* <B>not touch sb/sth</B><BR>to not hurt someone or not damage something<BR>　*<I>The older boys swore they hadn't touched the child.</I><BR>　*<I>Parma had not been touched.</I><BR>*<B>【DEAL WITH SOMEBODY/SOMETHING】</B> [T]<BR>to become involved with or deal with a particular problem, situation, or person<BR>　*<I>He was the only lawyer who would touch the case.</I><BR>　*<I>Everything he touches turns to disaster.</I><BR>　*<I>No school would touch a teacher who had been convicted of assault.</I><BR>*<B>【REACH AN AMOUNT】</B> [T]<BR><I>especially BrE</I> to reach a particular amount or level<BR>　*<I>At the time, the unemployment rate was touching 10 percent and rising.</I><BR>*<B>【HIT/KICK】</B> [T]<BR><I>BrE</I> to gently hit or kick a ball - used especially in reports of sports games<BR>　*<I>Evans was just able to touch the ball away from Wilkinson.</I><BR>* <B>not touch sth/sb (with a bargepole)</B><BR><I>BrE</I> <B>not touch sth/sb with a ten-foot pole</B> <I>AmE</I> <BR>used to say that you think someone or something is bad and people should not be involved with them<BR>　*<I>I wouldn't touch him with a bargepole.</I><BR>　*<I>Financial analysts have warned investors not to touch these offers with a ten-foot pole.</I><BR>* <B>be touched with sth</B><BR><I>literary</I> to have a small amount of a particular quality<BR>　*<I>His voice was touched with the faintest of Italian accents.</I><BR>　*<I>Her nails had been manicured and lightly touched with colour.</I><BR>*<B>【EXPRESSION】</B> [T]<BR>if an expression such as a smile touches your face, your face has that expression for a short time<BR>　*<I>A smile touched her lips.</I><BR>*<B>【RELATE TO SOMETHING】</B> [T]<BR>to be about or to deal with a particular subject, situation, or problem<BR>　*<I>Though the question touched a new vein, Nelson answered promptly.</I><BR>　*<I>The discourse touches many of the issues which are currently popular.</I><BR>*<B>【LIGHT】</B> [T]<BR><I>literary</I> if light touches something, it shines on it<BR>　*<I>The sun was just touching the tops of the mountains.</I><BR>* <B>nothing/no one can touch sb/sth</B><BR>used for saying that nothing or no one is as good as a particular person or thing<BR>　*<I>He describes the events with a passion that no other writer can touch.</I><BR>* <B>touch base (with sb)</B><BR>to talk to someone in order to find out how they are or what is happening<BR>　*<I>I just wanted to touch base and make sure you hadn't changed your mind about seeing me.</I><BR>* <B>touch bottom</B><BR><B>a)</B> to reach the ground at the bottom of a sea, river etc<BR>　*<I>He swam down but could not touch bottom.</I><BR><B>b)</B> to reach the lowest level or worst condition<BR>　*<I>The housing market has touched bottom.</I><BR>→<B>touch a (raw) nerve</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/nerve"><U>nerve</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(6), <B>touch wood</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/wood"><U>wood</U></A></B><BR><B>touch down</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>*when an aircraft touches down, it lands on the ground<BR>　*<I>The plane finally touched down at Heathrow airport around midday.</I><BR>*in the sport of <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rugby"><U>rugby</U></A>, to score by putting the ball on the ground behind the other team's <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/goal%20line"><U>goal line</U></A><BR><B>touch for</B> [touch sb for sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>to persuade someone to give or lend you something, especially money<BR>　*<I>He tried to touch me for the taxi fare home.</I><BR><B>touch off</B> [touch sth⇔off] <I>phr v</I><BR>to cause a difficult situation or violent events to begin<BR>　*<I>It was these national rivalries that eventually touched off the First World War.</I><BR><B>touch on/upon</B> [touch on/upon sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>to mention a particular subject when talking or writing<BR>　*<I>The report touches on the relationship between poverty and poor health.</I><BR>　*<I>These issues were touched on in Chapter 2.</I><BR><B>touch up</B> [touch sb/sth⇔up] <I>phr v</I><BR>*to improve something by changing it slightly or adding a little more to it<BR>　*<I>She quickly touched up her lipstick.</I><BR>　*<I>The photograph had obviously been touched up.</I><BR>　*<I>The speech he finally gave had been touched up by his staff.</I><BR>* <I>BrE informal</I> to touch someone in a sexual way when they do not want you to<BR>　*<I>He was accused of touching up one of his students.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>touch</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">touch<SUP>2</SUP> <B>W2S2</B> <I>n</I>
<HR>
<B>1【touching somebody/something】</B><BR><B>2【ability to feel things】</B><BR><B>3 in touch (with somebody)</B><BR><B>4 be/keep/stay etc in touch (with something)</B><BR><B>5 be out of touch</B><BR><B>6 get in touch with something</B><BR><B>7【detail/addition】</B><BR><B>8【way of doing something】</B><BR><B>9 a touch of something</B><BR><B>10 a touch disappointed/faster/impatient etc</B><BR><B>11 with/at the touch of a button/key</B><BR><B>12 a soft/easy touch</B><BR><B>13【way something feels】</B><BR><B>14【soccer/rugby】</B>
<HR>
*<B>【TOUCHING SOMEBODY/SOMETHING】</B> [C usually singular]<BR>the action of putting your hand, finger, or another part of your body on something or someone<BR>　*<I>She felt a gentle touch on her shoulder.</I><BR><B>touch of</B><BR>　*<I>He remembered the touch of her fingers on his face.</I><BR>*<B>【ABILITY TO FEEL THINGS】</B>[U]<BR>the sense that you use to discover what something feels like, by putting your hand or fingers on it<BR>　*<I>the <B>sense of touch</B> </I><BR><B>by touch</B><BR>　*<I>Visually impaired people orient themselves by touch.</I><BR>　*<I>Bake the cake for 30 minutes until risen and firm <B>to the touch</B> .</I><BR>* <B>in touch (with sb)</B><BR>talking or writing to someone<BR>　*<I>We'll <B>get in touch</B> (=start talking or writing to you) as soon as we know the results of the test.</I><BR>　*<I>Can I have your phone number in case I need to <B>get in touch with</B> you?</I><BR>　*<I>Bye. I'll <B>be in touch</B> .</I><BR>　*<I> <B>Are</B> you still <B>in touch with</B> John (=are you talking to him regularly) ?</I><BR>　*<I>I'm <B>in close touch</B> with Anna.</I><BR><B>stay/keep in touch</B><BR>(=keep writing or talking, even though you do not see each other often)<BR>　*<I>Anyway, we must stay in touch.</I><BR>　*<I>I met him when I worked in Madrid, and I've kept in touch with him ever since.</I><BR>　*<I>I <B>lost touch with</B> (=stopped writing or talking to) Julie after we moved.</I><BR>　*<I>I can <B>put</B> you <B>in touch with</B> a local photography club (=give you their address or phone number so you can talk to them) .</I><BR>* <B>be/keep/stay etc in touch (with sth)</B><BR>to have the latest information or knowledge about something<BR>　*<I>A regular newsletter keeps people in touch with local events.</I><BR>　*<I>The speech was good and you felt he was in touch with people's needs.</I><BR>　*<I>Rescuers were kept in touch through radio links.</I><BR>　*<I>A head-teacher needs to remain <B>in close touch with</B> teachers' everyday concerns.</I><BR>* <B>be out of touch</B><BR><B>a)</B> <I>also</I> <B>lose touch (with sth)</B> <BR>to not have the latest knowledge about a subject, situation, or the way people feel<BR><B>be out of touch with</B><BR>　*<I>I'm out of touch with modern medicine.</I><BR>　*<I>The party cannot afford to lose touch with political reality.</I><BR><B>b)</B> to not know much about modern life<BR>　*<I>Judges are often accused of being out of touch.</I><BR>* <B>get in touch with sth</B><BR><I>especially AmE</I> to realize and understand something such as your feelings and attitudes<BR>　*<I>The first stage is to get in touch with your perceptions and accept responsibility for your relationships.</I><BR>*<B>【DETAIL/ADDITION】</B> [C] <BR>a small detail that improves or completes something<BR><B>put the final/finishing touches to sth</B><BR>　*<I>Emma was putting the finishing touches to the cake.</I><BR>　*<I>There was a vase of flowers in the room, which was <B>a nice touch</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>Brass pans added a decorative touch to the plain brick wall.</I><BR>*<B>【WAY OF DOING SOMETHING】</B> [C] <BR>a particular way of doing something, or the ability to do it in a particular way<BR>　*<I>The room was decorated with a very artistic touch.</I><BR>　*<I>Our staff combine efficient service with a <B>personal touch</B> (=they do things in a friendly way) .</I><BR>　*<I>The <B>feminine touch</B> was evident throughout the house.</I><BR>　*<I>His <B>sure touch</B> (=confident way of doing things) and attention to detail are just as evident now.</I><BR>　*<I>Barbara has a <B>magic touch</B> in the garden (=she grows things very well) .</I><BR>　*<I>King obviously hasn't <B>lost</B> his <B>touch</B> (=lost his ability) - his latest book sold in the millions.</I><BR>* <B>a touch of sth</B><BR>a small amount of something<BR>　*<I>Our furniture is guaranteed to add a touch of class to your bedroom.</I><BR>　*<I>Add a lace top for a touch of glamour.</I><BR>　*<I>'What?' asked Hazel, with a touch of irritation.</I><BR>* <B>a touch disappointed/faster/impatient etc</B><BR>slightly disappointed, faster etc<BR>　*<I>He sounded a touch upset when I spoke to him on the phone.</I><BR>* <B>with/at the touch of a button/key</B><BR>used to emphasize that something can be done very easily by pressing a button<BR>　*<I>This card allows you to access your money at the touch of a button.</I><BR>　*<I>You can get all the latest information with the touch of a button.</I><BR>* <B>a soft/easy touch</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>if someone is a soft or an easy touch, you can easily persuade them to do what you want, especially give you money<BR>*<B>【WAY SOMETHING FEELS】</B> [C usually singular]<BR>the way that something feels and the effect it has on your skin<BR>　*<I>the warm touch of his lips</I><BR>*<B>【SOCCER/RUGBY】</B>[U]<BR>the area outside the lines that mark the playing area<BR><B>into touch</B><BR>　*<I>The ball rolled into touch.</I><BR>→<B>common touch</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/common"><U>common</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(13), <B>a/the human touch</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/human"><U>human</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(5), <B>kick sth into touch</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/kick"><U>kick</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(11), <B>lose your touch</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/lose"><U>lose</U></A> </B>, <B>magic touch</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/magic"><U>magic</U></A> </B><SUP>2 </SUP>(5), <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/Midas%20touch"><U>Midas touch</U></A>,a soft touch</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/soft"><U>soft</U></A></B></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/affect"><U>affect</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/ask%20for"><U>ask for</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/beg"><U>beg</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/borrow"><U>borrow</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/brush"><U>brush</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/contact"><U>contact</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/feel"><U>feel</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/finger"><U>finger</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/graze"><U>graze</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/handle"><U>handle</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/impress"><U>impress</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/manipulate"><U>manipulate</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/move"><U>move</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/reach"><U>reach</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/scrape"><U>scrape</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/skim"><U>skim</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/stir"><U>stir</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/strike"><U>strike</U></A></DIV></DIV>

> Thank you so much for letting me know, if we are **charged** for this period I will be in touch.
>
> -- <cite>Karen</cite>
