---
layout: post
title:  "Rub"
categories: undefined
tag: easy
img: http://sextonvisiongroup.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/rub.jpg
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">rub<SUP>1</SUP> <B>S3</B> /rʌb/ <I>v past tense and past participle</I> <B>rubbed</B> <I>present participle</I> <B>rubbing</B> <BR>[Date: 1300-1400; Origin: Perhaps from <I>Low German</I> rubben]<BR>* [I and T] <BR>to move your hand, or something such as a cloth, backwards and forwards over a surface while pressing firmly<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/stroke"><U>stroke</U></A><BR><B>rub your nose/chin/eyes/forehead etc</B><BR>　*<I>She yawned and rubbed her eyes.</I><BR><B>rub sth with sth</B><BR>　*<I>She began rubbing her hair with a towel.</I><BR>　*<I>You'll have to rub harder if you want to get it clean.</I><BR>　*<I>I hurriedly rubbed myself dry.</I><BR>* [I and T] <BR>to make something press against something else and move it around<BR><B>rub sth against/on sth</B><BR>　*<I>She stood by the oven, rubbing one bare foot against the other.</I><BR><B>rub against</B><BR>　*<I>The cat purred loudly, rubbing against her legs.</I><BR><B>rub sth together</B><BR>　*<I>We tried to make a fire by rubbing two pieces of wood together.</I><BR>　*<I>He <B>rubbed</B> his <B>hands together</B> with embarrassment.</I><BR>* [I and T] <BR>if shoes, clothes, or parts of a machine rub, they move around while pressing against another surface, often causing pain or damage<BR>　*<I>Badly fitting shoes are bound to rub.</I><BR><B>rub against/on</B><BR>　*<I>The front left fender was smashed and rubbing against the wheel.</I><BR>　*<I>The skin under my sock was rubbed raw (=the skin had come off) .</I><BR>* [T always + adverb/preposition] <BR>to put a substance into or onto a surface by pressing it and moving it about with your fingers or something such as a cloth<BR>　*<I>Can you rub some sun cream on my back for me?</I><BR>* <B>rub shoulders with sb</B><BR><I>informal also</I> <B>rub elbows with somebody</B> <I>AmE</I> <BR>to meet and spend time with people, especially rich and famous people<BR>　*<I>As a reporter he gets to rub shoulders with all the big names in politics.</I><BR>* <B>rub salt into the wound</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to make a bad situation even worse for someone<BR>* <B>rub sb up the wrong way</B><BR><I>BrE informal</I> <B>rub sb the wrong way</B> <I>AmE informal</I> to annoy someone by the things you say or do, usually without intending to<BR>* <B>be rubbing your hands</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to be pleased because something has happened which gives you an advantage, especially because something bad has happened to someone else<BR>* <B>rub sb's nose in it/in the dirt</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to keep reminding someone about something they did wrong or failed to do, especially in order to punish them<BR>* <B>not have two pennies/halfpennies/beans to rub together</B><BR><I>BrE old-fashioned</I> to not have any money<BR><B>rub along</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>to have a friendly relationship with someone<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/get%20along"><U>get along</U></A><BR>　*<I>We rub along well most of the time.</I><BR><B>rub along with/together</B><BR>　*<I>By and large the Poles and Germans of the city had shown that they could rub along together.</I><BR><B>rub down</B> [rub sth/sb⇔down] <I>phr v</I><BR>*to make a surface smooth by rubbing it with <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/sandpaper"><U>sandpaper</U></A><BR>　*<I>That door needs rubbing down before you paint it.</I><BR>*to dry a person or animal by rubbing them with a cloth, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/towel"><U>towel</U></A> etc<BR>　*<I>The groom rubbed down the horses.</I><BR>*to <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/massage"><U>massage</U></A> someone, especially after exercise<BR><B>rub in</B> [rub sth⇔in] <I>phr v</I><BR>to remind someone about something they want to forget, especially because they are embarrassed about it<BR>　*<I>Was he trying to rub in the fact that he didn't think much of me?</I><BR>　*<I>I know I should have been more careful, but there's no need to keep <B>rubbing it in</B> .</I><BR><B>rub off</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>*to remove something from a surface by rubbing it, or to come off a surface because of being rubbed<BR><B>rub sth off sth</B><BR>　*<I>Jack rubbed the mud off his face.</I><BR><B>rub sth⇔off</B><BR>　*<I>She rubbed off her lipstick and eye shadow.</I><BR>　*<I>Some of the gold paint had begun to rub off.</I><BR>*if a feeling, quality, or habit rubs off on you, you start to have it because you are with another person who has it<BR><B>rub off on</B><BR>　*<I>She refused to give up, and her confidence rubbed off on the others.</I><BR><B>rub out</B> [rub sth/sb⇔out] <I>phr v</I><BR>* <I>BrE</I> to remove writing, a picture etc from a surface by rubbing it with a piece of rubber, a cloth etc<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/erase"><U>erase</U></A><BR>　*<I>Draw the outline lightly with a soft pencil. This can be rubbed out later.</I><BR>* <I>AmE old-fashioned informal</I> to murder someone</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>rub</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">rub<SUP>2</SUP> <I>n</I> <BR>* <B>give sb/sth a rub</B><BR>to rub something or <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/massage"><U>massage</U></A> someone for a short time<BR>　*<I>Give the table a good rub with a damp cloth.</I><BR>* <B>there's/here's the rub</B><BR><I>literary</I> used when saying that a particular problem is the reason why a situation is so difficult - often used humorously</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/buff"><U>buff</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/massage"><U>massage</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/scour"><U>scour</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/scrub"><U>scrub</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/stroke"><U>stroke</U></A></DIV></DIV>
