---
layout: post
title:  "Heavy"
categories: undefined
tag: easy
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">heav<B>·</B>y<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W1S1</B> /ˈhevi/ <I>adj comparative</I> <B>heavier</B> <I>superlative</I> <B>heaviest</B> <BR>
<HR>
<B>1【weight】</B><BR><B>2【amount/degree/severity】</B><BR><B>3【needing physical effort】</B><BR><B>4【needing mental effort】</B><BR><B>5 heavy going</B><BR><B>6 be heavy on something</B><BR><B>7 heavy with something</B><BR><B>8 heavy schedule/timetable/day etc</B><BR><B>9 heavy breathing</B><BR><B>10 make heavy weather of something</B><BR><B>11【weapons/machines】</B><BR><B>12【materials/clothes etc】</B><BR><B>13【food】</B><BR><B>14【eyes】</B><BR><B>15【body/face】</B><BR><B>16【with force】</B><BR><B>17【ground】</B><BR><B>18【smell】</B><BR><B>19【air】</B><BR><B>20【emotions】</B><BR><B>21 get heavy (with somebody)</B><BR><B>22 heavy silence/atmosphere</B><BR><B>23 heavy sky/clouds</B><BR><B>24 heavy sleeper</B><BR><B>25 heavy irony/sarcasm</B><BR><B>26 heavy seas</B><BR><B>27 with a heavy heart</B><BR><B>28 heavy date</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English; Origin: hefig]<BR>*<B>【WEIGHT】</B><BR>weighing a lot<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/light"><U>light</U></A><BR>　*<I>The wardrobe was too heavy for me to move on my own.</I><BR>　*<I>a heavy suitcase</I><BR>　*<I>The males are seven times heavier than the females on average.</I><BR>　*<I> <B>How heavy</B> is the parcel (=how much does it weigh?) ?</I><BR>*<B>【AMOUNT/DEGREE/SEVERITY】</B><BR>great in amount, degree, or severity<BR>　*<I>The <B>traffic</B> going into London was very <B>heavy</B> .</I><BR>　*<I> <B>Heavy rain</B> has caused flooding in many areas.</I><BR>　*<I> <B>Heavy fighting</B> was reported near the border.</I><BR>　*<I> <B>Heavy drinking</B> during pregnancy can damage your baby.</I><BR>　*<I>I used to be a <B>heavy smoker</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>the <B>heavy burden</B> of taxation</I><BR>　*<I>If found guilty, they face <B>heavy fines</B> or even prison.</I><BR>　*<I>There were <B>heavy casualties</B> on both sides.</I><BR>　*<I>England's <B>heavy defeat</B> in yesterday's match</I><BR>　*<I>She's in bed with a <B>heavy cold</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>the film's <B>heavy use</B> of special effects</I><BR>*<B>【NEEDING PHYSICAL EFFORT】</B><BR>needing a lot of physical strength and effort<BR>　*<I>My son does most of the <B>heavy</B> outdoor <B>work</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>She has a bad back and can't do any <B>heavy lifting</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【NEEDING MENTAL EFFORT】</B><BR>not easy or entertaining and needing a lot of mental effort<BR>　*<I>I want something to read on holiday - nothing too heavy.</I><BR>* <B>heavy going</B><BR>difficult to understand or deal with<BR>　*<I>I <B>found</B> his latest novel a bit <B>heavy going</B> .</I><BR>* <B>be heavy on sth</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to use a lot or too much of something<BR>　*<I>The car's rather heavy on oil.</I><BR>* <B>heavy with sth</B><BR><I>literary</I> full of something<BR>　*<I>The apple trees were heavy with fruit.</I><BR>　*<I>The garden was heavy with the scent of summer.</I><BR>　*<I>'Of course,' she said, her voice heavy with sarcasm.</I><BR>* <B>heavy schedule/timetable/day etc</B><BR>a time in which you have a lot to do<BR>　*<I>Let's go to bed. We've got a heavy day tomorrow.</I><BR>* <B>heavy breathing</B><BR>breathing that is slow and loud<BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/heavy%20breather"><U>heavy breather</U></A></B><BR>* <B>make heavy weather of sth</B><BR><I>BrE</I> to make something that you are doing seem more difficult or complicated than it really is - used to show disapproval<BR>　*<I>Why does he need to make such heavy weather of a simple task?</I><BR>*<B>【WEAPONS/MACHINES】</B> [only before noun]<BR>large and powerful<BR>　*<I>tanks and other heavy weapons</I><BR>　*<I> <B>heavy artillery</B> (=large powerful guns)</I> <BR>　*<I>a company which manufactures <B>heavy machinery</B> </I><BR>*<B>【MATERIALS/CLOTHES ETC】</B><BR>heavy materials, clothes, shoes, or objects are thick or solidly made<BR>　*<I>a heavy winter coat</I><BR>　*<I>the sound of heavy boots</I><BR>　*<I>Melt the butter in a heavy pan over a medium heat.</I><BR>　*<I>heavy velvet curtains</I><BR>*<B>【FOOD】</B><BR>solid and making your stomach feel full and uncomfortable<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/light"><U>light</U></A><BR>　*<I>a heavy meal</I><BR>　*<I>heavy fruitcake</I><BR>*<B>【EYES】</B><BR>if your eyes are heavy, it is difficult to keep them open, usually because you are tired<BR>　*<I>His eyes felt heavy with fatigue.</I><BR>*<B>【BODY/FACE】</B><BR><B>a)</B> large, broad, and solid<BR>　*<I>his heavy features</I><BR>　*<I>Kyle is a tall man with a <B>heavy build</B> (=a large broad body) .</I><BR><B>b)</B> <I>AmE</I> used to politely describe someone who is fat<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/large"><U>large</U></A><BR>*<B>【WITH FORCE】</B><BR>hitting something or falling with a lot of force or weight<BR>　*<I>the sound of heavy footsteps in the hall</I><BR>　*<I>Ali caught him with a heavy blow to the jaw.</I><BR>*<B>【GROUND】</B><BR><B>a)</B> soil that is heavy is thick and solid<BR><B>b)</B> a sports ground or race track that is heavy is muddy<BR>　*<I>a very heavy pitch</I><BR>　*<I> <B>The going</B> was <B>heavy</B> (=it was muddy for the horse races) at Cheltenham yesterday.</I><BR>*<B>【SMELL】</B><BR>strong and usually sweet<BR><B>heavy scent/perfume etc</B><BR>　*<I>the heavy scent of the lilies</I><BR>*<B>【AIR】</B><BR>too warm and not at all fresh because there is no wind<BR>　*<I>Even at dusk the air was still heavy.</I><BR>*<B>【EMOTIONS】</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>a relationship or situation that is heavy involves serious or strong feelings<BR>　*<I>She didn't want things to <B>get</B> too <B>heavy</B> at such an early stage in their relationship.</I><BR>* <B>get heavy (with sb)</B> <I>informal</I> to start behaving in a threatening or strict way<BR>　*<I>He came round and started getting heavy about the money I owed him.</I><BR>* <B>heavy silence/atmosphere</B><BR>a situation in which people do not speak and feel sad, anxious, or embarrassed<BR>　*<I>A heavy silence fell upon the room.</I><BR>* <B>heavy sky/clouds</B><BR>clouds that look dark and grey as though it will soon rain<BR>* <B>heavy sleeper</B><BR>someone who does not wake easily<BR>* <B>heavy irony/sarcasm</B><BR>remarks that very clearly say the opposite of what you really feel<BR>* <B>heavy seas</B><BR>sea with big waves<BR>　*<I>The ship went down in heavy seas off the coast of Scotland.</I><BR>* <B>with a heavy heart</B><BR><I>literary</I> feeling very sad<BR>　*<I>It was with a heavy heart that Kate said goodbye.</I><BR>* <B>heavy date</B><BR><I>AmE</I> a very important <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/date"><U>date</U></A> (=an occasion when you meet someone you like in a romantic way) with a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/boyfriend"><U>boyfriend</U></A> or <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/girlfriend"><U>girlfriend</U></A> - usually used humorously<BR><B>&gt;heaviness</B> <I>n</I> [U]
<HR>
<B>COLLOCATES for sense 2</B> <BR><B>heavy traffic</B> <BR><B>heavy rain/snow</B> <BR><B>heavy fighting</B> <BR><B>heavy drinking</B> <I>also </I><B>heavy drinker</B> <BR><B>heavy smoking</B> <I>also </I><B>heavy smoker</B> <BR><B>heavy burden/demands/pressure</B> <BR><B>heavy fine</B> <BR><B>heavy casualties</B> (=a lot of deaths or injuries) <BR><B>heavy losses</B> <BR><B>heavy defeat</B> <BR><B>heavy cold</B> <BR><B>heavy use of something</B>
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">heavy<SUP>2</SUP> <I>adv</I> <BR>* <B>time hangs/lies heavy on your hands</B><BR>if time hangs or lies heavy on your hands, it seems to pass slowly because you are bored or have nothing to do<BR>* <B>be heavy into sth</B><BR><I>AmE spoken informal</I> to be very involved in an activity, especially one that is not good for you<BR>　*<I>Eric was real heavy into drugs for a while.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">heavy<SUP>3</SUP> <I>plural</I> <B>heavies</B> <BR><I>n</I> [C] <BR><I>informal</I> a large strong man who is paid to protect someone or to threaten other people</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bulky"><U>bulky</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fat"><U>fat</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/hefty"><U>hefty</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/laden"><U>laden</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/weighty"><U>weighty</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/light"><U>light</U></A></DIV></DIV>
