---
layout: post
title:  "Reason"
categories: undefined
tag: easy
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">rea<B>·</B>son<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W1S1</B> /ˈriːzən/ <I>n</I>
<HR>
<B>1【cause】</B><BR><B>2【good or fair】</B><BR><B>3 all the more reason why/to do something</B><BR><B>4【good judgment】</B><BR><B>5 within reason</B><BR><B>6 go/be beyond (all) reason</B><BR><B>7【ability to think】</B><BR><B>8 no reason</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1200-1300; Language: Old French; Origin: raison, from <I>Latin</I> ratio; <B>RATIO</B>]<BR>*<B>【CAUSE】</B> [C] <BR>why someone decides to do something, or the cause or explanation for something that happens<BR>　*<I>The reason I called was to ask about the plans for Saturday.</I><BR>　*<I>We'd like to know the <B>reason why</B> she didn't accept the job.</I><BR>　*<I>People give many different <B>reasons for</B> wanting to change jobs.</I><BR>　*<I>They must have had a <B>good reason to</B> do it.</I><BR><B>reason behind</B><BR>　*<I>He explained the reasons behind the decision.</I><BR>　*<I>He wouldn't <B>give</B> the <B>reasons for</B> his decision.</I><BR>　*<I> <B>For some reason or other</B> , he couldn't come that day.</I><BR>　*<I>She wants to change her job <B>for</B> purely <B>personal reasons</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>I kept the photos <B>for sentimental reasons</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>She didn't answer <B>for the simple reason that</B> she couldn't think of anything to say.</I><BR>　*<I> <B>For obvious reasons</B> , we've changed all the names.</I><BR>　*<I>The tower is closed <B>for reasons of</B> safety.</I><BR>　*<I> <B>For reasons best known to herself</B> , she's sold the house and left the country.</I><BR>　*<I>There is <B>no reason whatsoever</B> to doubt her story.</I><BR>　*<I>'Why did you tell him?' 'Oh, I <B>had my reasons</B> .'</I><BR>　*<I>I <B>see no reason</B> why it shouldn't work.</I><BR><I>see usage note</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cause"><U>cause</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP><BR>*<B>【GOOD OR FAIR】</B>[U]<BR>a fact that makes it right or fair for someone to do something<BR><B>(no) reason to do sth</B><BR>　*<I>There is no reason to panic.</I><BR>　*<I>She <B>has reason</B> to feel guilty.</I><BR>　*<I>We <B>have reason to believe that</B> the goods were stolen.</I><BR>　*<I>I know I'm late, but <B>that's no reason</B> to shout at me.</I><BR>　*<I>Under the circumstances, we <B>had every reason</B> (=had very good reasons) to be suspicious.</I><BR><B>with (good) reason</B><BR>(=based on something sensible)<BR>　*<I>Natalie was alarmed by the news, and with reason.</I><BR>* <B>all the more reason why/to do sth</B><BR><I>spoken</I> used to say that what has just been mentioned is an additional reason for doing what you have suggested<BR>　*<I>But surely that's all the more reason to act quickly.</I><BR>*<B>【GOOD JUDGMENT】</B>[U]<BR>sensible judgment and understanding<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/sense"><U>sense</U></A><BR>　*<I>There's reason in what he says.</I><BR>　*<I>They're not prepared to <B>listen to reason</B> (=be persuaded by someone's sensible advice) .</I><BR>　*<I>There's no way of making my father <B>see reason</B> (=accept advice and make a sensible decision) .</I><BR>* <B>within reason</B><BR>within sensible limits<BR>　*<I>You can go anywhere you want, within reason.</I><BR>* <B>go/be beyond (all) reason</B><BR>to be more than is acceptable or reasonable<BR>　*<I>Their demands go beyond all reason.</I><BR>*<B>【ABILITY TO THINK】</B>[U]<BR>the ability to think, understand, and form judgments that are based on facts<BR>　*<I>the human <B>power of reason</B> </I><BR><B>lose your reason</B><BR><I>old-fashioned</I> (=become mentally ill) <BR>* <B>no reason</B><BR><I>spoken</I> used when someone asks you why you are doing something and you do not want to tell them<BR>　*<I>'Why d'you want to go that way?' 'Oh, no reason.'</I><BR>→<B>no rhyme or reason</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rhyme"><U>rhyme</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(4)<BR>→<B>it stands to reason</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/stand"><U>stand</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(32)
<HR>
<B>COLLOCATES for sense 1</B> <BR><B>reason (that)</B> <BR><B>reason why</B> <BR><B>reason for (doing) something</B> <BR><B>reason to do something</B> <BR><B>a good reason</B> <BR><B>a compelling reason</B> (=a reason that persuades you) <BR><B>give a reason (for something)</B> <BR><B>for some reason (or other/or another)</B> (=for a reason that you do not know) <BR><B>for personal reasons</B> <BR><B>for sentimental reasons</B> (=because of your feelings, not for practical reasons) <BR><B>for the simple reason (that)</B> <BR><B>for obvious reasons</B> <BR><B>for reasons of something</B> <BR><B>for reasons best known to himself/themselves etc</B> (=used when someone does something surprising) <BR><B>no/any reason whatsoever</B> <BR><B>have your reasons</B> (=have a secret reason for doing something) <BR><B>see no reason why/to do something</B> <BR><B>by reason of something</B> <I>formal</I> (=because of something) <BR><B>GRAMMAR</B> <BR><B>!! Reason</B> is never followed by <B>of</B> or <B>because</B> . <BR>You can talk about the <B>reason for</B> something, the <B>reason that</B> something happens , or the <B>reason why</B> something happens : <I>Can you explain the reasons for (NOT reasons of) your decision?</I> |<I>The main reason why/that (NOT reason because) I'm writing is to invite you to stay.</I> <BR>You can also leave out <B>why</B> or <B>that</B> : <I>I like children, and that's the reason I became a teacher.</I> <BR><B>!! Reason</B> is not usually followed by <B>against</B> . When you are giving reasons why something is bad, use <B>argument against</B> : <I>An important argument against (NOT reason against) capital punishment is the possibility of error.</I>
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>reason</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">reason<SUP>2</SUP> <I>v</I> <BR>* [T] <BR>to form a particular judgment about a situation after carefully considering the facts<BR><B>reason (that)</B><BR>　*<I>They reasoned that other businesses would soon copy the idea.</I><BR>* [I] <BR>to think and make judgments<BR>　*<I>the ability to reason</I><BR><B>reason out</B> [reason sth⇔out] <I>phr v</I><BR>to find an explanation or solution to a problem, by thinking of all the possibilities<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/work%20out"><U>work out</U></A><BR><B>reason with</B> [reason with sb] <I>phr v</I><BR>to talk to someone in an attempt to persuade them to be more sensible<BR>　*<I>I tried to reason with her.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/basis"><U>basis</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cause"><U>cause</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/explanation"><U>explanation</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/ground"><U>ground</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/justification"><U>justification</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/logic"><U>logic</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/motive"><U>motive</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/sense"><U>sense</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/passion"><U>passion</U></A></DIV></DIV>
