---
layout: post
title:  "Hold"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">hold<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W1S1</B> /həuld US hould/ <I>v past tense and past participle</I> <B>held</B> /held/<BR>
<HR>
<B>1【in your hand/arms】</B><BR><B>2【event】</B><BR><B>3【keep something in position】</B><BR><B>4【job/title】</B><BR><B>5【keep/store】</B><BR><B>6【keep something available for somebody】</B><BR><B>7【keep somebody somewhere】</B><BR><B>8【opinion】</B><BR><B>9 hold somebody responsible/accountable/liable (for something)</B><BR><B>10【own something】</B><BR><B>11【contain particular amount】</B><BR><B>12【support】</B><BR><B>13【stay at same level】</B><BR><B>14【not change】</B><BR><B>15【stop/delay】</B><BR><B>16 hold your head up</B><BR><B>17 hold your breath</B><BR><B>18 hold (your) fire</B><BR><B>19【telephone】</B><BR><B>20【army】</B><BR><B>21【musical note】</B><BR><B>22【future】</B><BR><B>23【have a quality】</B><BR><B>24 hold your own (against somebody)</B><BR><B>25 not hold a candle to somebody/something</B><BR><B>26 be left holding the baby</B><BR><B>27 hold sway</B><BR><B>28 hold court</B><BR><B>29 hold your tongue</B><BR><B>30 hold all the cards</B><BR><B>31 hold fast (to something)</B><BR><B>32 hold a conversation</B><BR><B>33 hold the fort</B><BR><B>34 hold the lead/advantage</B><BR><B>35 there's no holding somebody (back)</B><BR><B>36 can hold your drink/liquor/alcohol etc</B><BR><B>37 not hold water</B><BR><B>38 hold something/somebody dear</B><BR><B>39 hold the road</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>hold something against somebody</B><BR>　<B>hold back</B><BR>　<B>hold somebody/something⇔down</B><BR>　<B>hold forth</B><BR>　<B>hold off</B><BR>　<B>hold on</B><BR>　<B>hold on to somebody/something</B><BR>　<B>hold out</B><BR>　<B>hold out for something</B><BR>　<B>hold out on somebody</B><BR>　<B>hold something over</B><BR>　<B>hold to something</B><BR>　<B>hold together</B><BR>　<B>hold up</B><BR>　<B>hold somebody/something up as something</B><BR>　<B>hold with something</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English; Origin: healdan]<BR>*<B>【IN YOUR HAND/ARMS】</B><BR><B>a)</B> [T] <BR>to have something in your hand, hands, or arms<BR>　*<I>Could you hold my bag for me?</I><BR><B>hold sth in your hand/arms</B><BR>　*<I>He was holding a knife in one hand.</I><BR>　*<I>I held the baby in my arms.</I><BR><B>hold hands</B><BR>(=hold each other's hands)<BR>　*<I>They sat holding hands under a tree.</I><BR><B>hold sb close/tightly</B><BR>(=with your arms around someone)<BR>　*<I>Max held her close and wiped away her tears.</I><BR><B>b)</B> [T always + adverb/preposition] <BR>to move your hand or something in your hand in a particular direction<BR><B>hold sth out/up etc</B><BR>　*<I>He <B>held out</B> his <B>hand</B> to help her to her feet.</I><BR>　*<I>Hold the picture up so we can see it.</I><BR>*<B>【EVENT】</B> [T]<BR>to have a meeting, party, election etc in a particular place or at a particular time<BR>　*<I>This year's conference will be held at the Hilton Hotel.</I><BR>　*<I>A thanksgiving ceremony was held to mark the occasion.</I><BR>　*<I>The funeral was held on a grey day in November.</I><BR>　*<I>In April, the President <B>held talks with</B> Chinese leaders.</I><BR>*<B>【KEEP SOMETHING IN POSITION】</B> [T]<BR>to make something stay in a particular position<BR><B>hold sth open/up etc</B><BR>　*<I>We used rolled-up newspapers to hold the windows open.</I><BR>　*<I>Remember to hold your head up and keep your back straight.</I><BR><B>hold sth in place/position</B><BR>　*<I>A couple of screws should hold it in place.</I><BR>　*<I>Lift your head off the floor and hold this position for five seconds.</I><BR>*<B>【JOB/TITLE】</B> [T]<BR><B>a)</B> to have a particular job or position, especially an important one<BR>　*<I>Do you really think he's capable of holding such a responsible position?</I><BR><B>hold the post/position/office etc (of sth)</B><BR>　*<I>She was the first woman to hold the office of Australian state premier.</I><BR>　*<I>The governor had held the post since 1989.</I><BR>　*<I>Whoever is elected will <B>hold office</B> (=have an important political position) for four years.</I><BR><B>b)</B> to have a particular title or record, because you have won a competition, are the best at something etc<BR>　*<I>The programme still <B>holds the record for</B> the longest running TV series.</I><BR>　*<I>The last Briton to hold the title was Bert Nicholson.</I><BR>*<B>【KEEP/STORE】</B> [T]<BR>to keep something to be used when it is needed<BR>　*<I>Further copies of the book are held in the library.</I><BR>　*<I>Weapons were held at various sites.</I><BR>*<B>【KEEP SOMETHING AVAILABLE FOR SOMEBODY】</B> [T]<BR>to agree not to give something such as a ticket, a place at a restaurant, a job etc to anyone except a particular person<BR>　*<I>We can hold the reservation for you until next Friday.</I><BR><B>hold sth open</B><BR>　*<I>You can't expect them to hold the job open for much longer - you'll have to decide whether you want it or not.</I><BR>*<B>【KEEP SOMEBODY SOMEWHERE】</B> [T]<BR>to keep someone somewhere, and not allow them to leave<BR>　*<I>Police are holding two men in connection with the robbery.</I><BR><B>hold sb prisoner/hostage/captive</B><BR>　*<I>A senior army officer was held hostage for four months.</I><BR><B>hold sb incommunicado</B><BR>(=keep someone somewhere and not allow them to communicate with anyone) <BR>*<B>【OPINION】</B> [T not in progressive]<BR>to have a particular opinion or belief<BR>　*<I>Experts hold varying opinions as to the causes of the disease.</I><BR><B>be widely/generally/commonly held</B><BR>(=be the opinion of a lot of people)<BR>　*<I>This view is not widely held.</I><BR><B>be held to be sth</B><BR>　*<I>She was held to be one of the most talented actors of her time.</I><BR><B>hold that</B><BR>　*<I>The judge held that the child's interests in this case must come first.</I><BR>* <B>hold sb responsible/accountable/liable (for sth)</B><BR>to say or decide that someone should accept the responsibility for something bad that happens<BR>　*<I>If anything happens to her, I'll <B>hold</B> you <B>personally responsible</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>He may have had a terrible childhood, but he should still be held accountable for his own actions.</I><BR>*<B>【OWN SOMETHING】</B> [T]<BR>to officially own or possess money, a document, a company etc<BR>　*<I>He holds shares in ICI.</I><BR>　*<I>Do you hold a valid passport?</I><BR>　*<I>a <B>privately held</B> company</I><BR>*<B>【CONTAIN PARTICULAR AMOUNT】</B> [T not in progressive]<BR>to have the space to contain a particular amount of something<BR>　*<I>The movie theater holds 500 people.</I><BR>　*<I>The tank should hold enough to last us a few days.</I><BR>*<B>【SUPPORT】</B> [I and T]<BR>to be strong enough to support the weight of something or someone<BR>　*<I>Careful! I'm not sure that branch will hold you.</I><BR>　*<I>The bridge didn't look as though it would hold.</I><BR>*<B>【STAY AT SAME LEVEL】</B> [I and T]<BR>to stay at a particular amount, level, or rate, or to make something do this<BR>　*<I>The bank is holding interest rates at 4%.</I><BR>　*<I>Since then, the pound has <B>held steady</B> against the dollar.</I><BR><B>hold sb's interest/attention</B><BR>(=make someone stay interested)<BR>　*<I>Colourful pictures help hold the students' interest.</I><BR>*<B>【NOT CHANGE】</B> [I]<BR>to continue to be true, good, available etc<BR>　*<I>What I said yesterday holds.</I><BR>　*<I>Does your invitation still hold?</I><BR><B>hold true/good</B><BR>　*<I>Twenty years on, his advice still holds good.</I><BR><B>weather/luck holds (out)</B><BR>(=continues to be good)<BR>　*<I>If our luck holds, we could reach the final.</I><BR>*<B>【STOP/DELAY】</B> [T]<BR><I>spoken</I> used in particular phrases to tell someone to wait or not to do something<BR>　*<I>I'll have a tuna fish sandwich please - and hold the mayo. (=do not give me any)</I> <BR><B>hold it!</B><BR>　*<I>Hold it! We're not quite ready.</I><BR><B>hold your horses!</B><BR>(=used to tell someone to do something more slowly or carefully) <BR>* <B>hold your head up</B> <I>also</I> <B>hold your head high</B> <BR>to behave as if you are proud of yourself or respect yourself<BR>　*<I>They may have lost the game, but I still think they've earned the right to hold their heads high today.</I><BR>* <B>hold your breath</B><BR><B>a)</B> to deliberately not breathe out for a short time<BR>　*<I>Hold your breath and count to ten.</I><BR><B>b)</B> to not breathe out and try not to make a sound because you do not want to be noticed<BR>　*<I>Julie shrank back against the wall and held her breath.</I><BR><B>c) not hold your breath</B><BR><I>spoken</I> used to say that you do not expect something to happen, even though someone has said it will<BR>　*<I>He promised he'd phone, but I'm not holding my breath.</I><BR>* <B>hold (your) fire</B><BR><B>a)</B> to not shoot at someone when you were going to<BR><B>b)</B> to not criticize, attack, or oppose someone when you were going to<BR>　*<I>The president urged his party to hold fire on the issue a few days longer.</I><BR>*<B>【TELEPHONE】</B> [I]<BR><I>also</I> <B>hold the line</B><BR><I>spoken</I> to wait until the person you have telephoned is ready to answer<BR>　*<I>Mr Stevens is busy at the moment - would you like to hold?</I><BR>　*<I>Please hold the line while I transfer you.</I><BR>*<B>【ARMY】</B> [T]<BR>if an army holds a place, it controls it or defends it from attack<BR>　*<I>The French army held the town for three days.</I><BR>*<B>【MUSICAL NOTE】</B> [T]<BR>to make a musical note continue for a particular length of time<BR>*<B>【FUTURE】</B> [T] <I>formal</I><BR>if the future holds something, that is what may happen<BR>　*<I>Thousand of workers are waiting to see <B>what the future holds</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【HAVE A QUALITY】</B> [T] <I>formal</I><BR>to have a particular quality<BR><B>hold (little) interest/appeal/promise etc</B><BR>　*<I>Many church services hold little appeal for modern tastes.</I><BR>* <B>hold your own (against sb)</B><BR>to successfully defend yourself or succeed in a difficult situation, competition etc<BR>　*<I>He was a good enough player to hold his own against the Americans.</I><BR>* <B>not hold a candle to sb/sth</B><BR>to be much worse than someone or something else<BR>* <B>be left holding the baby</B><BR><I>BrE</I> <B>be left holding the bag</B> <I>AmE</I> <BR>to be left as the only person responsible for dealing with a difficult situation, especially something someone else started<BR>　*<I>He was left holding the financial baby when his musical partner joined another band.</I><BR>* <B>hold sway</B><BR>to have a lot of influence or power<BR>　*<I>Among people here, traditional values still hold sway.</I><BR>* <B>hold court</B><BR>to get the attention of everyone while you are talking, especially when you are trying to entertain people<BR>　*<I>Joey would walk into the bar and hold court all night.</I><BR>* <B>hold your tongue</B><BR><I>spoken</I> used to tell someone to stop talking or to not tell someone about something<BR>　*<I>I reckon you've just got to learn to hold your tongue.</I><BR>* <B>hold all the cards</B><BR>to have all the advantages in a situation in which people are competing or arguing<BR>　*<I>'There's not much we can do. They seem to hold all the cards,' said Dan gloomily.</I><BR>* <B>hold fast (to sth)</B><BR>to keep believing strongly in something<BR>* <B>hold a conversation</B><BR>to have a conversation<BR>* <B>hold the fort</B><BR>to be responsible for something while the person usually responsible for it is not there<BR>　*<I>She's holding the fort while the manager's on holiday.</I><BR>* <B>hold the lead/advantage</B><BR>to be winning in a competition, game etc<BR>　*<I>Celtic held the lead in the first half.</I><BR>* <B>there's no holding sb (back)</B><BR><I>spoken</I> used to say that someone is so determined to do something that you cannot prevent them from doing it<BR>* <B>can hold your drink/liquor/alcohol etc</B><BR>to be able to drink a lot of alcohol without getting drunk or ill<BR>* <B>not hold water</B><BR>if an excuse, a statement etc does not hold water, it does not seem to be true or reasonable<BR>　*<I>His explanation of where the money came from just doesn't hold water.</I><BR>* <B>hold sth/sb dear</B><BR><I>formal</I> to care about something or someone a lot<BR>　*<I>We were facing the loss of everything we held dear.</I><BR>* <B>hold the road</B><BR>if a car holds the road well you can drive it quickly around bends without losing control<BR>→<B>hold a course</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/course"><U>course</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(8)<BR><B>hold against</B> [hold sth against sb] <I>phr v</I><BR>to continue to dislike someone or not forgive them because of something bad they have done in the past<BR>　*<I>You can't still hold that against him, surely?</I><BR><B>hold back</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>* <B>hold sb/sth⇔back</B><BR>to make someone or something stop moving forward<BR>　*<I>Police in riot gear held back the demonstrators.</I><BR>* <B>hold sth⇔back</B><BR>to stop yourself from feeling or showing a particular emotion<BR>　*<I>She struggled to <B>hold back</B> her <B>tears</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>Anger flooded through her. She couldn't hold it back.</I><BR>* <B>hold sb/sth⇔back</B><BR>to prevent someone or something from making progress<BR>　*<I>They felt the British economy was being held back by excessive government controls.</I><BR>* <B>hold (sb) back</B><BR>to be unwilling to do something, especially because you are being careful, or to make someone unwilling to do something<BR>　*<I>In the current situation many investors are holding back.</I><BR>　*<I>She wanted to tell him but pride held her back.</I><BR>* <B>hold sth⇔back</B><BR>to keep something secret<BR>　*<I>Tell me all about it - don't hold anything back!</I><BR><B>hold down</B> [hold sb/sth⇔down] <I>phr v</I><BR>*to make someone or something stay on something, and stop them from moving away or escaping<BR>　*<I>We had to hold the tent down with rocks to stop it blowing away.</I><BR>　*<I>It took three strong men to hold him down.</I><BR>*to prevent the level of something such as prices from rising<BR>　*<I>We will aim to hold down prices.</I><BR>* <B>hold down a job</B><BR>to succeed in keeping a job for a period of time<BR>　*<I>He's never held down a job for longer than a few weeks.</I><BR>*to keep people under control or limit their freedom<BR>　*<I>The people were held down for centuries by their conquerors.</I><BR><B>hold forth</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>to give your opinion on a subject, especially for a long time<BR><B>hold forth on</B><BR>　*<I>The speaker was holding forth on the collapse of modern society.</I><BR><B>hold off</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>*to delay doing something<BR>　*<I>Buyers have been holding off until the price falls.</I><BR><B>hold off (on) doing sth</B><BR>　*<I>Hold off making your decision until Monday.</I><BR>* <B>hold sb⇔off</B><BR><B>a)</B> to prevent someone who is trying to attack or defeat you from succeeding<BR>　*<I>Not even a gun could hold him off forever.</I><BR><B>b)</B> to prevent someone from coming towards you or succeeding in speaking to you<BR>　*<I>There's already a crowd of reporters outside - I'll try to hold them off for a while.</I><BR>*if rain or bad weather holds off, it does not start, although it looked as if it would<BR>　*<I>The rain held off until after the game.</I><BR><B>hold on</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>* <I>spoken</I> <B>a)</B> to wait for a short time<BR>　*<I>Hold on, I'll just get my coat.</I><BR><B>b)</B> used when you have just noticed, heard, or remembered something interesting or wrong<BR>　*<I>Hold on a minute! Isn't that your brother's car over there?</I><BR><B>c)</B> used to ask someone on the telephone to wait until the person they want to talk to is available<BR>　*<I>Can you hold on? I'll try to find her.</I><BR>*to have your hands or arms tightly around something<BR>　*<I> <B>Hold on tight</B> !</I><BR><B>hold on to</B><BR>　*<I>Hold on to my arm.</I><BR>*to continue doing something that is very difficult to do<BR>　*<I>San Francisco held on to win 4-2.</I><BR><B>hold on to /</B> [hold on to sb/sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>to keep something rather than losing it, selling it, or giving it to someone else<BR>　*<I>The soldiers held on to the bridge for three more days.</I><BR>　*<I>I think I'll hold on to these old records for now.</I><BR><B>hold out</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>* <B>hold out sth</B><BR>to think or say that something is possible or likely to happen, especially something good<BR><B>not hold out much hope/hold out little hope</B><BR>　*<I>Negotiators aren't holding out much hope of a peaceful settlement.</I><BR><B>hold out the prospect/promise of sth</B><BR>　*<I>alternative methods which hold out the promise of improved health</I><BR>*if a supply of something holds out, there is still some left<BR>　*<I>Water supplies won't hold out much longer.</I><BR>*to continue to successfully defend a place that is being attacked<BR>　*<I>The rebels held out for another night but then fresh forces arrived.</I><BR>*to try to prevent yourself from doing something that someone is trying to force you to do<BR><B>hold out against</B><BR>　*<I>I didn't know how much longer I could hold out against their relentless questioning.</I><BR><B>hold out for</B> [hold out for sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>to not accept anything less than you have asked for<BR>　*<I>Transport workers are holding out for a 20% pay rise.</I><BR><B>hold out on</B> [hold out on sb] <I>phr v</I><BR>to not tell someone about something important<BR>　*<I>She must have been holding out on him all these years.</I><BR><B>hold over</B> [hold sth over] <I>phr v</I><BR>* [usually passive] <I>formal</I> <BR>to do or deal with something at a later time<BR>　*<I>The matter was held over for further review.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/holdover"><U>holdover</U></A></B><BR>* <B>hold sth over sb</B><BR>to use something bad that you know about someone to make them do what you want<BR>　*<I>He knows I've been in prison and is holding it over me.</I><BR>* <B>be held over</B><BR><I>especially AmE</I> if a play, film, concert etc is held over, it is shown for longer than planned because it is very popular<BR><B>hold to</B> [hold to sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>*if you hold to a belief, principle, promise etc, you believe it or behave according to it<BR>　*<I>He admitted he did not hold to the traditional view of God.</I><BR>　*<I>The Secretary of State must hold to his policy.</I><BR>* <B>hold sb to sth</B><BR>to make someone do what they have promised<BR>　*<I>'I'll ask him tomorrow.' 'OK, but I'm going to hold you to that.'</I><BR>* <B>hold sb to sth</B><BR><I>BrE</I> to prevent your opponent in a sports game from getting more than a particular number of points<BR>　*<I>Norway held Holland to a 2-2 draw.</I><BR><B>hold together</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>*if a group or organization holds together, or if something holds it together, it stays strong and does not separate into different parts or groups<BR>　*<I>Against all expectations, the coalition held together well.</I><BR><B>hold sth⇔together</B><BR>　*<I>In those days the Church held the community together.</I><BR>*to remain whole and good enough to use, or to make something do this<BR>　*<I>Incredibly, the raft held together till we reached the opposite shore.</I><BR><B>hold sth⇔together</B><BR>　*<I>I wondered how the structure was held together.</I><BR><B>hold up</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>* <B>hold sth⇔up</B><BR>to support something and prevent it from falling down<BR>　*<I>The roof is held up by massive stone pillars.</I><BR>* <B>hold sb/sth⇔up</B> [usually passive] <BR>to delay someone or something<BR>　*<I>Sorry I'm late - I was held up at work.</I><BR>* <B>hold up sth</B><BR>to rob or try to rob a place or person by using violence<BR>　*<I>Two armed men held up a downtown liquor store last night.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/hold-up"><U>hold-up</U></A></B><BR>*to not become weaker<BR>　*<I>His physical condition has held up well.</I><BR><B>hold up as</B> [hold sb/sth up as sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>to use someone or something as a good example or as proof of something<BR>　*<I>The school is <B>held up as a model</B> for others.</I><BR>　*<I>This incident will be held up as proof that tougher controls are needed.</I><BR><B>hold with</B> [hold with sth] <I>phr v</I><BR><B>not hold with sth</B><BR><I>BrE</I> used to say that someone does not approve of something<BR>　*<I>He says he doesn't hold with all this politically correct stuff.</I><BR><B>not hold with doing sth</B><BR>　*<I>I don't hold with hitting children in any circumstances.</I>
<HR>
<B>WORD CHOICE: hold, take/get hold of, pick up</B> <BR><B>Hold</B> means to have something in your hand, hands, or arms : <I>He was holding a piece of paper.</I> <BR>If you want to talk about someone putting their hands or fingers around something and starting to hold it, use <B>take/get hold of</B> : <I>She got hold of the knife and stabbed him.</I> <BR>If you want to talk about someone putting their fingers around something and taking it, especially from the floor, use <B>pick up</B> : <I>I picked up all the toys from the floor.</I> <BR><B>!!</B> Use <B>pick</B> not <B>pick up</B> when you are talking about pulling flowers off a plant : <I>She was in the garden picking flowers (NOT She was in the garden picking up flowers).</I>
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>hold</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">hold<SUP>2</SUP> <B>W3S2</B> <I>n</I>
<HR>
<B>1【holding something】</B><BR><B>2 get hold of something</B><BR><B>2 get a hold of something</B><BR><B>3 get hold of somebody</B><BR><B>3 get a hold of somebody</B><BR><B>4【control/power】</B><BR><B>5 on hold</B><BR><B>6 take (a) hold</B><BR><B>7 get hold of an idea/an impression/a story etc</B><BR><B>8【fight】</B><BR><B>9【climbing】</B><BR><B>10【ship】</B><BR><B>11 no holds barred</B>
<HR>
[<B>Sense: 1-9, 11</B>; Origin: <B>HOLD<SUP>1</SUP></B>]<BR>[<B>Sense: 10</B>; Origin: hole]<BR>*<B>【HOLDING SOMETHING】</B> [singular]<BR>the action of holding something with your hands<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/grip"><U>grip</U></A> <B>hold on</B><BR>　*<I>She released her <B>tight hold on</B> the dog.</I> <BR>* <I>He <B>tightened</B> his <B>hold</B> , refusing to let her go.</I> <BR>* <I>Make sure you <B>keep hold of</B> my hand when we cross the road.</I> <BR>* <I>I <B>took hold of</B> her hand and gently led her away.</I> <BR>　*<I> <B>Grab hold of</B> the rope and pull yourself up.</I> <BR>* <B>get hold of sth</B> <I>also</I> <B>get a hold of sth</B><BR><I>AmE</I> to find or borrow something so that you can use it<BR>　*<I>I need to get hold of a car.</I><BR>　*<I>She managed to get a hold of a copy.</I><BR>* <B>get hold of sb</B> <I>also</I> <B>get a hold of sb</B><BR><I>AmE</I> to find and speak to someone about something<BR>　*<I>I must get hold of Vanessa to see if she can babysit.</I><BR>*<B>【CONTROL/POWER】</B> [singular]<BR>control, power, or influence over something or someone<BR><B>get/keep a hold on/of sth</B><BR>　*<I>He struggled to get a hold of his emotions.</I><BR>　*<I>I've always kept <B>a tight hold</B> on our finances.</I><BR>　*<I>I realized that the woman <B>had a hold over</B> my father.</I><BR>* <B>on hold</B><BR><B>a)</B> if something is on hold, it is going to be done or dealt with at a later date rather than now<BR>　*<I>The plans are on hold until after the election.</I><BR>　*<I>Since having the kids, my career has been <B>put on hold</B> .</I><BR><B>b)</B> if you are on hold, you are waiting to talk to someone on the telephone<BR>　*<I>We try not to keep people on hold for more than a couple of minutes.</I><BR>　*<I>The agent <B>put</B> me <B>on hold</B> while she consulted a colleague.</I><BR>* <B>take (a) hold</B><BR>to start to have a definite effect<BR>　*<I>The fever was beginning to take hold.</I><BR>* <B>get hold of an idea/an impression/a story etc</B><BR>to learn or begin to believe something<BR>　*<I>Where on earth did you get hold of that idea?</I><BR>*<B>【FIGHT】</B> [C] <BR>a particular position that you hold an opponent in, in a fight or a sport such as <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/wrestling"><U>wrestling</U></A><BR>*<B>【CLIMBING】</B> [C] <BR>somewhere you can put your hands or feet to help you climb something<BR>　*<I>The cliff was steep and it was difficult to find a hold.</I><BR>*<B>【SHIP】</B> [C] <BR>the part of a ship below the <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/deck"><U>deck</U></A> <SUP>1</SUP>(1) where goods are stored<BR>* <B>no holds barred</B><BR>when there are no rules or limits on what you are allowed to do<BR>　*<I>It seems there are no holds barred when it comes to making a profit.</I>
<HR>
<B>COLLOCATES for sense 1</B> <BR><B>tight/firm hold (on something)</B> <BR><B>tighten your hold (on something)</B> <BR><B>loosen/release your hold (on something)</B> <BR><B>have/keep hold of something</B> (=be holding something) <BR><B>get/take hold of something</B> (=start holding something) <BR><B>catch/grab/seize hold of something</B> (=take hold of something quickly and firmly) <BR><B>lose your hold (on something)</B> (=accidentally let go of something)
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/apply"><U>apply</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assume"><U>assume</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bear"><U>bear</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/carry"><U>carry</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cling%20to"><U>cling to</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/clutch"><U>clutch</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/consider"><U>consider</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/contain"><U>contain</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/grasp"><U>grasp</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/grip"><U>grip</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/have"><U>have</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/keep"><U>keep</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/maintain"><U>maintain</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/occupy"><U>occupy</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/presume"><U>presume</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/regard"><U>regard</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/retain"><U>retain</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/stand%20up"><U>stand up</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/support"><U>support</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/suppose"><U>suppose</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/surmise"><U>surmise</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/think"><U>think</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/drop"><U>drop</U></A></DIV></DIV>
