---
layout: post
title:  "Rush"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">rush<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W3S2</B> /rʌʃ/ <I>v</I>
<HR>
<B>1【move quickly】</B><BR><B>2 rush to do something</B><BR><B>3【do something too quickly】</B><BR><B>4【take/send urgently】</B><BR><B>5【make somebody hurry】</B><BR><B>6【liquid】</B><BR><B>7【blood】</B><BR><B>8【attack】</B><BR><B>9【american universities】</B><BR><B>10【american football】</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>rush around</B><BR>　<B>rush something⇔out</B><BR>　<B>rush something⇔through</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1300-1400; Language: Old French; Origin: ruser <I>'to drive back, deceive'</I>, from <I>Latin</I> recusare; <B>RECUSE</B>]<BR>*<B>【MOVE QUICKLY】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to move very quickly, especially because you need to be somewhere very soon<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/hurry"><U>hurry</U></A><BR>　*<I>A small girl rushed past her.</I><BR>　*<I>Mo rushed off down the corridor.</I><BR>* <B>rush to do sth</B><BR>to do something very quickly and without delay<BR>　*<I>I rushed to pack my suitcase before she came back.</I><BR>　*<I>He rushed to help his comrade.</I><BR>*<B>【DO SOMETHING TOO QUICKLY】</B> [I and T]<BR>to do or decide something too quickly, especially so that you do not have time to do it carefully or well<BR>　*<I>He does not intend to rush his decision.</I><BR><B>rush into</B><BR>　*<I>I'm not rushing into marriage again.</I><BR><B>rush through</B><BR>　*<I>She rushed through her script.</I><BR><B>rush it/things</B><BR>　*<I>When we first met, neither of us wanted to rush things.</I><BR>*<B>【TAKE/SEND URGENTLY】</B> [T always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to take or send someone or something somewhere very quickly, especially because of an unexpected problem<BR><B>rush sb/sth to sth</B><BR>　*<I>The Red Cross rushed medical supplies to the war zone.</I><BR>　*<I>Dan was <B>rushed to hospital</B> with serious head injuries.</I><BR>*<B>【MAKE SOMEBODY HURRY】</B> [T]<BR>to try to make someone do something more quickly than they want to<BR>　*<I>I'm sorry to rush you, but we need a decision by Friday.</I><BR><B>rush sb into (doing) sth</B><BR>　*<I>They felt they were being rushed into choosing a new leader.</I><BR>*<B>【LIQUID】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR>if water or another liquid rushes somewhere, it moves quickly<BR>　*<I>Water rushed through the gorge.</I><BR>*<B>【BLOOD】</B><BR><B>blood rushes to sb's face/cheeks</B><BR>used to say that someone's face becomes red because they feel embarrassed<BR>　*<I>I felt the blood rush to my face as I heard my name.</I><BR>*<B>【ATTACK】</B> [T]<BR>to attack a person or place suddenly and in a group<BR>　*<I>They rushed the guard and stole his keys.</I><BR>*<B>【AMERICAN UNIVERSITIES】</B><BR><I>AmE</I> <B>a)</B> [T] <BR>to give parties for students, have meetings etc, in order to decide whether to let them join your <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fraternity"><U>fraternity</U></A> or <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/sorority"><U>sorority</U></A> (=type of club) <BR><B>b)</B> [I and T] <BR>to go through the process of trying to be accepted into one of these clubs<BR>*<B>【AMERICAN FOOTBALL】</B> [I and T]<BR>to carry the ball forward<BR><B>rush around</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>to try to do a lot of things in a short period of time<BR>　*<I>Get things ready early so that you don't have to rush around at the last minute.</I><BR><B>rush out</B> [rush sth⇔out] <I>phr v</I><BR>to make a new product, book etc available for sale very quickly<BR>　*<I>The new edition was rushed out just before Christmas.</I><BR><B>rush through</B> [rush sth⇔through] <I>phr v</I><BR>to deal with official or government business more quickly than usual<BR><B>rush sth through sth</B><BR>　*<I>The legislation was rushed through parliament.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>rush</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">rush<SUP>2</SUP> <I>n</I>
<HR>
<B>1【fast movement】</B><BR><B>2【hurry】</B><BR><B>3【busy period】</B><BR><B>4【people wanting something】</B><BR><B>5【feeling】</B><BR><B>6【plant】</B><BR><B>7【film】</B><BR><B>8【american students】</B>
<HR>
[<B>Sense: 1-6, 7-8</B>; Date: 1300-1400; Origin: <B>RUSH<SUP>1</SUP></B>]<BR>[<B>Sense: 6</B>; Origin: <I>Old English</I> risc]<BR>*<B>【FAST MOVEMENT】</B> [singular]<BR>a sudden fast movement of things or people<BR><B>rush of air/wind/water</B><BR>　*<I>She felt a cold rush of air as she wound down her window.</I><BR><B>in a rush</B><BR>　*<I>Her words came out in a rush.</I><BR>　*<I>At five past twelve there was a <B>mad rush</B> to the dinner hall.</I><BR>*<B>【HURRY】</B> [singular,U]<BR>a situation in which you need to hurry<BR>　*<I>I knew there would be a <B>last-minute rush</B> to meet the deadline.</I><BR>　*<I>Don't worry, <B>there's no rush</B> . We don't have to be at the station until 10.</I><BR><B>do sth in a rush</B><BR>(=do something quickly because you need to hurry)<BR>　*<I>I had to do my homework in a rush because I was late.</I><BR><B>be in a rush</B><BR>　*<I>I'm sorry, I can't talk now - I'm in a rush.</I><BR>*<B>【BUSY PERIOD】</B><BR><B>the rush</B><BR>the time in the day, month, year etc when a place or group of people is particularly busy<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/peak"><U>peak</U></A><BR>　*<I>The café is quiet until the lunchtime rush begins.</I><BR>　*<I>the Christmas rush</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rush%20hour"><U>rush hour</U></A></B><BR>*<B>【PEOPLE WANTING SOMETHING】</B> [singular]<BR>a situation in which a lot of people suddenly try to do or get something<BR><B>rush on</B><BR>　*<I>There's always a rush on swimsuits in the hot weather.</I><BR><B>rush to do sth</B><BR>　*<I>the rush to put computers in all schools</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/gold%20rush"><U>gold rush</U></A></B><BR>*<B>【FEELING】</B> [singular]<BR><B>a)</B> <I>informal</I> a sudden strong, usually pleasant feeling that you get from taking a drug or from doing something exciting<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/high"><U>high</U></A><BR>　*<I>The feeling of power gave me such a rush.</I><BR>　*<I>an <B>adrenalin rush</B> </I><BR><B>b) rush of anger/excitement/gratitude etc</B><BR>a sudden very strong feeling of anger etc<BR>　*<I>I felt a rush of excitement when she arrived.</I><BR>　*<I>A rush of jealousy swept through her.</I><BR>*<B>【PLANT】</B> [C usually plural]<BR>a type of tall grass that grows in water, often used for making baskets<BR>*<B>【FILM】</B><BR><B>rushes</B> [plural] <BR>the first prints of a film before it has been <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/edit"><U>edited</U></A><BR>American Equivalent: <B>dailies</B><BR>*<B>【AMERICAN STUDENTS】</B>[U]<BR><I>AmE</I> the time when students in American universities who want to join a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fraternity"><U>fraternity</U></A> or <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/sorority"><U>sorority</U></A> (=type of club) go to a lot of parties in order to try to be accepted<BR>　*<I>rush week</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/accelerate"><U>accelerate</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assault"><U>assault</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/attack"><U>attack</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/besiege"><U>besiege</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/charge"><U>charge</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dart"><U>dart</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dash"><U>dash</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/drive"><U>drive</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/expedite"><U>expedite</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/hasten"><U>hasten</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/hurry"><U>hurry</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/pressure"><U>pressure</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/push"><U>push</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/race"><U>race</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/run"><U>run</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/scurry"><U>scurry</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/speed"><U>speed</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/storm"><U>storm</U></A></DIV></DIV>
