---
layout: post
title:  "Burst"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">burst<SUP>1</SUP> /bəːst US bəːrst/ <I>v past tense and past participle</I> <B>burst</B> 
<HR>
<B>1【break open】</B><BR><B>2 be bursting with something</B><BR><B>3【move suddenly】</B><BR><B>4 burst open</B><BR><B>5 be bursting to do something</B><BR><B>6 be bursting</B><BR><B>7 burst somebody's bubble</B><BR><B>8 burst its banks</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>burst in on/upon somebody/something</B><BR>　<B>burst into something</B><BR>　<B>burst onto/upon/on something</B><BR>　<B>burst out</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English; Origin: berstan]<BR>*<B>【BREAK OPEN】</B> [I and T]<BR>if something bursts or if you burst it, it breaks open or apart suddenly and violently so that its contents come out<BR>　*<I>The <B>pipes</B> had <B>burst</B> and the house was under two feet of water.</I><BR>* <B>be bursting with sth</B><BR>to have a lot of something or be filled with something<BR>　*<I>John was bursting with ideas and good humour.</I><BR>　*<I>The shops are bursting with food.</I><BR><B>be bursting with pride/energy/excitement etc</B><BR>　*<I>Your mum's bursting with pride for you.</I><BR>*<B>【MOVE SUDDENLY】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to move somewhere suddenly or quickly, especially into or out of a place<BR><B>burst into/through/in etc</B><BR>　*<I>Jo burst into the room.</I><BR>* <B>burst open</B><BR>to open suddenly<BR>　*<I>The door burst open and Tom ran into the room.</I><BR>* <B>be bursting to do sth</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to want to do something very much<BR>　*<I>Zach was bursting to tell them something.</I><BR>* <B>be bursting</B><BR><B>a)</B> <I>BrE informal</I> to need to go to the toilet very soon<BR><B>b)</B> <I>also</I> <B>be bursting at the seams</B> <BR>to be so full that nothing else can fit inside<BR>* <B>burst sb's bubble</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to destroy someone's beliefs or hopes about something<BR>　*<I>Steve was so happy I couldn't bear to burst his bubble.</I><BR>* <B>burst its banks</B><BR>if a river bursts its banks, water from it goes on to the land<BR>→<B>full (up) to bursting</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/full"><U>full</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(1), <B>burst the bubble</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bubble"><U>bubble</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(6), <B>the bubble bursts</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bubble"><U>bubble</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(5)<BR><B>burst in on/upon /</B> [burst in on/upon sb/sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>to interrupt something by entering a room, in a way that embarrasses you or other people<BR>　*<I>I'm sorry to burst in on you like this.</I><BR><B>burst into</B> [burst into sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>*to suddenly begin to make a sound, especially to start singing, crying, or laughing<BR>　*<I>Claire looked as if she were about to <B>burst into tears</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>Suddenly, the group <B>burst into laughter</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>Lydia <B>burst into song</B> .</I><BR>* <B>burst into flames/flame</B><BR>to suddenly start to burn very strongly<BR>　*<I>Their car crashed and burst into flames.</I><BR><B>burst onto/upon/on</B> [burst onto/upon/on sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>to suddenly appear and become very successful<BR>　*<I>The band <B>burst onto the</B> music <B>scene</B> in 1997.</I><BR><B>burst out</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>* <B>burst out laughing/crying/singing etc</B><BR>to suddenly start to laugh, cry etc<BR>　*<I>Everyone in the room burst out laughing.</I><BR>*to suddenly say something in a forceful way<BR>　*<I>'I don't believe it!' she burst out angrily.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/outburst"><U>outburst</U></A></B></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>burst</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">burst<SUP>2</SUP> <I>n</I> [C] <BR>*the act of something bursting or the place where it has burst<BR>　*<I>a burst in the water pipe</I><BR>*<B>a)</B> a short sudden effort or increase in activity<BR><B>burst of</B><BR>　*<I>The van gave a sudden burst of speed.</I><BR><B>b)</B> a short sudden and usually loud sound<BR><B>burst of</B><BR>　*<I>sharp bursts of machine gun fire</I><BR><B>c)</B> a sudden strong feeling or emotion<BR><B>burst of anger/enthusiasm/temper etc</B></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/broken"><U>broken</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/exploded"><U>exploded</U></A></DIV></DIV>
