---
layout: post
title:  "Slide"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">slide<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W3</B> /slaɪd/ <I>v past tense and past participle</I> <B>slid</B> /slɪd/<BR>[Language: Old English; Origin: slidan]<BR>* [I and T] <BR>to move smoothly over a surface while continuing to touch it, or to make something move in this way<BR><B>slide along/across/down etc</B><BR>　*<I>Francesca slid across the ice.</I><BR><B>slide sth across/along etc</B><BR>　*<I>He opened the oven door and slid the pan of cookies in.</I><BR>　*<I>He <B>slid open</B> the door of the glass cabinet.</I><BR>* [I,T always + adverb/preposition] <BR>to move somewhere quietly and smoothly, or to move something in this way<BR><B>slide into/out of etc</B><BR>　*<I>Daniel slid out of the room when no one was looking.</I><BR>　*<I>She slid into the driver's seat.</I><BR><B>slide sth into/out of etc sth</B><BR>　*<I>He slid the gun into his pocket.</I><BR>* [I] <BR>if prices, amounts, rates etc slide, they become lower<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/drop"><U>drop</U></A><BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rise"><U>rise</U></A><BR>　*<I>Stocks slid a further 3% on the major markets today.</I><BR>* [I] <BR>to gradually become worse, or to begin to have a problem<BR>　*<I>Students' test scores started to slide in the mid-1990s.</I><BR><B>slide into</B><BR>　*<I>Murphy gradually slid into a pattern of drug abuse.</I><BR>* <B>let sth slide</B><BR><B>a)</B> to let a situation get gradually worse<BR>　*<I>Management has let safety standards slide at the factory.</I><BR><B>b)</B> <I>spoken</I> to ignore a mistake, problem, remark etc, without trying to improve or stop it<BR>　*<I>Well, I guess we can <B>let it slide</B> this time.</I>
<HR>
<B>WORD CHOICE: slide, slip, skid</B> <BR><B>Slide</B> means to move smoothly across a surface. You can talk about people, objects, or liquids sliding : <I>This floor's great for sliding on. </I>| <I>The door slid open (NOT slided open).</I> |<I>A tear slid down her cheek.</I> <BR><B>Slip</B> means to accidentally slide a small distance, and usually then fall down : <I>She slipped and hurt her wrist. </I>| <I>It's icy - mind you don't slip.</I> <BR><B>Skid</B> means to move across a smooth surface in an uncontrolled way. You usually use it to talk about vehicles : <I>Cars skidded on the snow. </I>|<I>Jason skidded around the corner on his bike.</I> 
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>slide</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">slide<SUP>2</SUP> <I>n</I> [C] <BR>
<HR>
<B>1【for children】</B><BR><B>2【decrease】</B><BR><B>3【picture】</B><BR><B>4【getting worse】</B><BR><B>5【science】</B><BR><B>6【music/machine】</B><BR><B>7【movement】</B><BR><B>8【earth/snow】</B><BR><B>9【for hair】</B>
<HR>
*<B>【FOR CHILDREN】</B><BR>a large structure with steps leading to the top of a long sloping surface which children can slide down<BR>*<B>【DECREASE】</B> [usually singular]<BR>a decrease in prices, amounts etc<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rise"><U>rise</U></A> <B>slide in</B><BR>　*<I>the current slide in house prices</I><BR><B>on the slide</B><BR>　*<I>The company's shares were on the slide again yesterday, down 7p at 339p.</I><BR><BR>*<B>【PICTURE】</B><BR>a small piece of film in a frame that you shine a light through to show a picture on a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/screen"><U>screen</U></A> or wall<BR>　*<I>a <B>slide show</B> </I><BR>*<B>【GETTING WORSE】</B> [usually singular]<BR>a situation in which something gradually gets worse, or someone develops a problem<BR><B>slide in</B><BR>　*<I>School administrators were unable to explain the slide in student performance.</I><BR><B>slide into</B><BR>　*<I>a slide into economic chaos</I><BR>*<B>【SCIENCE】</B><BR>a small piece of thin glass used for holding something that you want to look at under a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/microscope"><U>microscope</U></A><BR>*<B>【MUSIC/MACHINE】</B><BR>a sliding part of a machine or musical instrument, such as the U-shaped tube of a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/trombone"><U>trombone</U></A><BR>*<B>【MOVEMENT】</B> [usually singular]<BR>a sliding movement across a surface<BR>　*<I>The car <B>went into a slide</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【EARTH/SNOW】</B><BR>a sudden fall of earth, stones, snow etc down a slope<BR>　*<I>a rock slide</I><BR>*<B>【FOR HAIR】</B><BR><I>BrE</I> a small metal or plastic object that holds your hair in place</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/coast"><U>coast</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/glide"><U>glide</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/skid"><U>skid</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/skim"><U>skim</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/slip"><U>slip</U></A></DIV></DIV>
