---
layout: post
title:  "Favour"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">fa<B>·</B>vour<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W2S1</B> <I>BrE</I> <B>favor</B> <I>AmE</I> /ˈfeɪvə US -ər/ <I>n</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【help】</B><BR><B>2【support/approval】</B><BR><B>3【popular/unpopular】</B><BR><B>4【advantage】</B><BR><B>5【choose something instead】</B><BR><B>6 do somebody/something no favours</B><BR><B>7【unfair support】</B><BR><B>8 do me/us a favour!</B><BR><B>9【gift】</B><BR><B>10【sex】</B>
<HR>
*<B>【HELP】</B> [C] <BR>something that you do for someone in order to help them or be kind to them<BR>　*<I>Could you <B>do</B> me <B>a favour</B> and tell Kelly I can't make it?</I><BR>　*<I>He hired John <B>as a favour to</B> his father.</I><BR>　*<I>Paul, can I <B>ask</B> you <B>a favor</B> ?</I><BR>　*<I>I <B>owed</B> him <B>a favour</B> so I couldn't say no.</I><BR>　*<I>She helps me out when I have too much to do, and I <B>return the favour</B> when I can.</I><BR>　*<I> <B>Do yourself a favour</B> and make sure you get some time to yourself.</I><BR>*<B>【SUPPORT/APPROVAL】</B>[U]<BR>support, approval, or agreement for something such as a plan, idea, or system<BR><B>in favour of sth</B><BR>　*<I>Senior ministers spoke in favour of the proposal.</I><BR>　*<I>I talked to Susie about it, and she's <B>all in favor</B> (=completely approves) of going.</I><BR><B>find/gain/win favour</B><BR>　*<I>The idea may find favor with older people.</I><BR><B>in sb/sth's favour</B><BR>　*<I>The vote was 60-59 in the government's favor.</I><BR>　*<I>In Sweden and other countries, nuclear power has <B>lost favor</B> .</I><BR><B>look on/view/regard sth with favour</B><BR><I>formal</I> (=support something, and want to help it succeed)<BR>　*<I>Employers are more likely to look with favour on experienced candidates.</I><BR>　*<I> <B>All in favour</B> (=used when asking people to vote on something by raising a hand) ?</I><BR><B>vote/decide in favour of sth</B><BR>(=vote or decide to support something)<BR>　*<I>288 members voted in favor of the ban.</I><BR><B>find/rule in favour of sb</B><BR><I>formal</I> (=make a legal decision that supports someone) <BR>*<B>【POPULAR/UNPOPULAR】</B>[U]<BR>when someone or something is liked or approved of by people, or not liked or approved of<BR><B>be in favour (with sb)</B><BR>　*<I>The island is very much in favour as a holiday destination.</I><BR><B>be out of favour (with sb)</B><BR>　*<I>The stock is currently out of favor with investors.</I><BR><B>find/gain/win favour</B><BR>　*<I>Radcliffe's books began to find favour with the reading public.</I><BR><B>come/be back in favour</B><BR>(=become popular again)<BR>　*<I>Fountain pens have come back in favour.</I><BR><B>fall/go out of favour</B><BR>(=stop being approved of)<BR>　*<I>Grammar-based teaching methods went out of favour in the 60s and 70s.</I><BR>*<B>【ADVANTAGE】</B><BR><B>in sb's favour</B><BR>if something is in someone's favour, it gives them an advantage over someone else<BR>　*<I>Conditions on court are very much in Williams' favour.</I><BR>　*<I>The new rules should actually <B>work in your favor</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>Duncan <B>had</B> his height and weight <B>in his favour</B> during the fight.</I><BR><B>the odds are (stacked) in sb's favour</B><BR>(=someone has a big advantage) <BR>*<B>【CHOOSE SOMETHING INSTEAD】</B><BR><B>do sth in favour of sth</B><BR>if you decide not to use one thing in favour of another, you choose the other one because you think it is better<BR>　*<I>Plans for a tunnel were rejected in favour of a bridge.</I><BR>* <B>do sb/sth no favours</B><BR><B>not do sb/sth any favours</B> <BR>to do something that makes someone or something look worse than they are, or that does not help at all<BR>　*<I>Low interest rates don't do savers any favours.</I><BR>*<B>【UNFAIR SUPPORT】</B>[U]<BR>support that is given to one person or group and not to others, in a way that does not seem fair<BR>　*<I>Teachers should not <B>show favour to</B> any pupil.</I><BR>* <B>do me/us a favour!</B><BR><I>BrE spoken</I> used when you are annoyed because someone has asked a silly question or done something to upset people<BR>　*<I>Do us a favour, Mike, and shut up!</I><BR>　*<I>'Did you like it?' 'Do me a favour!'</I><BR>*<B>【GIFT】</B> [C] <I>AmE</I> <BR>a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/party%20favor"><U>party favor</U></A><BR>*<B>【SEX】</B><BR><B>favours</B> [plural] <I>old-fashioned</I> when you allow someone to have sex with you<BR>　*<I>She shared her <B>sexual favors</B> with many men.</I><BR>→<B>curry favour (with sb)</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/curry"><U>curry</U></A> </B><SUP>2 </SUP>, <B>without fear or favour</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fear"><U>fear</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(6), <B>be thankful/grateful for small favours</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/small"><U>small</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(13)
<HR>
<B>COLLOCATES for sense 1</B> <BR><B>do somebody a favour</B> (=do something for someone) <BR><B>as a favour (to somebody)</B> (=because you want to be kind, not because you have to) <BR><B>ask somebody a favour/ask a favour of somebody</B> (=ask someone to do something for you) <BR><B>owe somebody a favour</B> (=feel that you should do something for someone because they have done something for you) <BR><B>return a favour</B> (=do something for someone because they have done something for you) <BR><B>be doing somebody a favour</B> (=used to say that something that seems bad will benefit someone) <BR><B>do yourself a favour</B> (=do something good for yourself) <BR><B>a personal favour</B> <BR><B>a political favour</B> 
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>favour</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">favour<SUP>2</SUP> <B>W3</B> <I>BrE</I> <B>favor</B> <I>AmE v</I> [T] 
<HR>
<B>1【prefer】</B><BR><B>2【give an advantage】</B><BR><B>3【help】</B><BR><B>4【look like】</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>favour somebody with something</B>
<HR>
*<B>【PREFER】</B><BR>to prefer someone or something to other things or people, especially when there are several to choose from<BR>　*<I>Both countries seem to favour the agreement.</I><BR>　*<I>loose clothing of the type favoured in Arab countries</I><BR><B>favour sb/sth over sb/sth</B><BR>　*<I>Florida voters favored Bush over Gore by a very small margin.</I><BR>*<B>【GIVE AN ADVANTAGE】</B><BR>to treat someone much better than someone else, in a way that is not fair<BR>　*<I>a tax cut that favours rich people</I><BR><B>favour sb over sb</B><BR>　*<I>a judicial system that favours men over women</I><BR>*<B>【HELP】</B><BR>to provide suitable conditions for something to happen<BR>　*<I>The current economy does not favour the development of small businesses.</I><BR>*<B>【LOOK LIKE】</B><BR><I>old-fashioned</I> to look like one of your parents or grandparents<BR><B>favour with</B> [favour sb with sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>to give someone something such as a look or reply<BR>　*<I>McIntosh favoured her with a smile.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/favor"><U>favor</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/party%20favor"><U>party favor</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/party%20favour"><U>party favour</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/prefer"><U>prefer</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/privilege"><U>privilege</U></A></DIV></DIV>
