---
layout: post
title:  "Comparison"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">com<B>·</B>pa<B>·</B>ri<B>·</B>son<BR><B>W2S3</B> /kəmˈpærɪsən/ <I>n</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【comparing】</B><BR><B>2【judgment】</B><BR><B>3【be like something】</B><BR><B>4 there's no comparison</B><BR><B>5【grammar】</B>
<HR>
*<B>【COMPARING】</B>[U]<BR>the process of comparing two or more people or things<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/compare"><U>compare</U></A>, comparative <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/comparative"><U>comparative</U></A> <B>comparison with</B><BR>　*<I>Comparison with his previous movies shows how Lee has developed as a director.</I><BR><B>in comparison (with/to sth)</B><BR>　*<I>In comparison to other recent video games, this one isn't very exciting.</I><BR>　*<I>He was a loud friendly man. In comparison, his brother was rather shy.</I><BR><B>by comparison (with sth)</B><BR>　*<I>By comparison with other European countries, car prices in the UK are very high.</I><BR>　*<I>After months of living in a tropical climate, Spain seemed cool by comparison.</I><BR><B>for comparison (with sth)</B><BR>　*<I>These figures are provided for comparison with the results of previous studies.</I><BR>　*<I>He showed us the original text for comparison.</I><BR>　*<I>Her paintings <B>invite comparison</B> with those of the early Impressionists (=they remind you of them) .</I><BR><B>stand/bear comparison</B><BR>(=is as good as someone or something else)<BR>　*<I>Irving's work bears comparison with the best of the modern novelists.</I><BR><B>on comparison</B><BR><I>BrE</I> (=after you have compared two things to see if they are similar or different)<BR>　*<I>On comparison, the Renault was the more reliable of the two cars.</I><BR>*<B>【JUDGMENT】</B> [C] <BR>a statement or examination of how similar or different two people or things are<BR><B>comparison of</B><BR>　*<I>a comparison of pollution levels in Chicago and Detroit</I><BR><B>comparison between</B><BR>　*<I>The article <B>makes</B> a <B>comparison</B> between the two poems.</I><BR>*<B>【BE LIKE SOMETHING】</B> [C] <BR>a statement that someone or something is like someone or something else<BR><B>(make/draw) a comparison between sb/sth</B><BR>(=show the similarities between two people or things)<BR>　*<I>The writer draws comparisons between the two presidents.</I><BR>　*<I>You can't make a comparison between American and Japanese schools - they're too different.</I><BR>* <B>there's no comparison</B><BR><I>spoken</I> used when you think that someone or something is much better than someone or something else<BR><B>there's no comparison between</B><BR>　*<I>There's just no comparison between canned vegetables and fresh ones.</I><BR>*<B>【GRAMMAR】</B>[U]<BR>a word used in grammar meaning the way an adverb or adjective changes its form to show whether it is <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/comparative"><U>comparative</U></A> or <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/superlative"><U>superlative</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/comparability"><U>comparability</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/compare"><U>compare</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/comparing"><U>comparing</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/equivalence"><U>equivalence</U></A></DIV></DIV>
