---
layout: post
title:  "Lead"
categories: undefined
tag: good
word_excerpt: the events that led to the start of the First World War
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">lead<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W1S1</B> /liːd/ <I>v past tense and past participle</I> <B>led</B> /led/
<HR>
<B>1【take somebody somewhere】</B><BR><B>2【go in front】</B><BR><B>3【be in charge】</B><BR><B>4【cause something to happen】</B><BR><B>5【cause somebody to believe something】</B><BR><B>6【influence】</B><BR><B>7【be more successful】</B><BR><B>8【be winning】</B><BR><B>9【path/door etc】</B><BR><B>10【life】</B><BR><B>11【discussion etc】</B><BR><B>12 lead somebody up the garden path</B><BR><B>13 lead somebody astray</B><BR><B>14 lead nowhere/not lead anywhere</B><BR><B>15 lead by example</B><BR><B>16 lead somebody by the nose</B><BR><B>17 this/that leads (me) to something</B><BR><B>18 somebody has their own life to lead</B><BR><B>19 lead somebody a merry old dance/a right old dance</B><BR><B>20 market-led/export-led etc</B><BR><B>21 lead the eye</B><BR><B>22【card game】</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>lead off</B><BR>　<B>lead somebody on</B><BR>　<B>lead on to something</B><BR>　<B>lead with something</B><BR>　<B>lead up to something</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English; Origin: lAdan]<BR>*<B>【TAKE SOMEBODY SOMEWHERE】</B> [I and T]<BR>to take someone somewhere by going in front of them while they follow, or by pulling them gently<BR><B>lead sb to/into etc sth</B><BR>　*<I>A nurse took her arm and led her to a chair.</I><BR>　*<I>The horses were <B>led to safety</B> .</I><BR><B>lead sb away/down etc</B><BR>　*<I>She was led away from the courtroom in tears.</I><BR>　*<I>The manager <B>led the way</B> through the office.</I><BR><I>see usage note</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/direct"><U>direct</U></A> </B><SUP>2 </SUP><BR>*<B>【GO IN FRONT】</B> [I and T]<BR>to go in front of a line of people or vehicles<BR>　*<I>A firetruck was leading the parade.</I><BR>*<B>【BE IN CHARGE】</B> [I and T]<BR>to be in charge of an organization, country, or team, or a group of people who are trying to do something<BR>　*<I>He has led the party for over twenty years.</I><BR>　*<I>Some people say she is too old to <B>lead the country</B> (=be in charge of its government) .</I><BR>　*<I>Beckham <B>led</B> his team <B>to victory</B> .</I><BR><B>lead an investigation/inquiry/campaign</B><BR>　*<I>The investigation will be led by Inspector Scarfe.</I><BR>　*<I>They are leading a campaign to warn teenagers about the dangers of drug abuse.</I><BR><B>lead a revolt/rebellion/coup etc</B><BR>　*<I>The rebellion was led by the King's brother.</I><BR><B>lead an attack/assault</B><BR>　*<I>Nelson preferred to lead the attack himself from the front.</I><BR>　*<I>a man who was <B>born to lead</B> </I><BR>　*<I>a communist-led strike</I><BR>*<B>【CAUSE SOMETHING TO HAPPEN】</B> [I and T]<BR>to cause something to happen or cause someone to do something<BR><B>lead to</B><BR>　*<I>the events that led to the start of the First World War</I><BR>　*<I>A degree in English could lead to a career in journalism.</I><BR><B>lead sb into sth</B><BR>　*<I>Her trusting nature often <B>led</B> her <B>into trouble</B> .</I><BR><B>lead sb to do sth</B><BR>　*<I>What led him to kill his wife?</I><BR><B>lead to sb doing sth</B><BR>　*<I>His actions could lead to him losing his job.</I><BR>*<B>【CAUSE SOMEBODY TO BELIEVE SOMETHING】</B> [T]<BR>to make someone believe something, especially something that is not true<BR><B>lead sb to believe/expect/understand sth</B><BR>　*<I>He had led everyone to believe that his family was very wealthy.</I><BR>　*<I>The hotel was terrible, and not at all what we had been led to expect.</I><BR>　*<I>Our research <B>led</B> us <B>to the conclusion</B> that the present system is unfair.</I><BR>*<B>【INFLUENCE】</B> [T]<BR>to influence someone to make them do something that is wrong<BR><B>lead sb into sth</B><BR>　*<I>His brother led him into a life of crime.</I><BR>　*<I>He's not a bad boy. He's just <B>easily led</B> (=it is easy for other people to persuade him to do things that he should not do) .</I><BR>*<B>【BE MORE SUCCESSFUL】</B> [T]<BR>to be more successful than other people, companies, or countries in a particular activity<BR><B>lead the world/market/pack/field</B><BR>　*<I>US companies lead the world in biotechnology.</I><BR><B>lead the way</B><BR>(=be the first to do something, and show other people how to do it)<BR>　*<I>The Swedes have led the way in data protection.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/leading"><U>leading</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(1)<BR>*<B>【BE WINNING】</B> [I and T]<BR>to be winning a game, competition etc<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/lose"><U>lose</U></A><BR>　*<I>At half-time, Brazil led 1-0.</I><BR>　*<I>With 15 laps to go, Schumacher led the race.</I><BR>　*<I>The polls showed Clinton leading Bush 55 percent to 34 percent.</I><BR><B>lead by ten points/two goals etc</B><BR>　*<I>Agassi was leading by two sets.</I><BR>*<B>【PATH/DOOR ETC】</B> [I,T always + adverb/preposition]<BR>used to say where a path, wire etc goes or what place is on the other side of a door<BR><B>lead to/towards</B><BR>　*<I>The path led down to a small lake.</I><BR><B>lead from/out of</B><BR>　*<I>the major artery leading from the heart</I><BR><B>lead into</B><BR>　*<I>the door leading into the hallway</I><BR><B>lead sb to/into sth</B><BR>　*<I>The riverside path leads visitors to a small chapel.</I><BR>*<B>【LIFE】</B> [T]<BR>if you lead a particular kind of life, that is what your life is like<BR><B>lead a normal/quiet/busy etc life</B><BR>　*<I>If the operation succeeds, Carly will be able to lead a normal life.</I><BR>　*<I>He has <B>led a charmed life</B> (=been very fortunate) .</I><BR><B>lead a life of luxury/poverty etc</B><BR><B>lead the life of a ...</B><BR>　*<I>She now leads the life of a recluse.</I><BR><B>lead a double life</B><BR>(=deceive people by keeping different parts of your life separate and not letting anyone know the whole truth)<BR>　*<I>Joe had been leading a double life, seeing an ex-model while his wife believed he was on business.</I><BR>　*<I>They <B>lead</B> a nomadic <B>existence</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【DISCUSSION ETC】</B> [T always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to control the way a discussion, conversation etc develops<BR>　*<I>I tried to lead the conversation back to the subject of money.</I><BR>* <B>lead sb up the garden path</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to deliberately deceive someone<BR>* <B>lead sb astray</B><BR><B>a)</B> to encourage someone to do bad or immoral things, which they would not normally do<BR><B>b)</B> to make someone believe something that is not true<BR>* <B>lead nowhere/not lead anywhere</B><BR>to not produce any useful result<BR>　*<I>So far police investigations seem to have led nowhere.</I><BR>* <B>lead by example</B><BR>to show the people you are in charge of what you want them to do by doing it yourself<BR>　*<I>The best managers lead by example.</I><BR>* <B>lead sb by the nose</B><BR>to influence someone so much that you can completely control everything that they do<BR>　*<I>Politicians think they can easily lead people by the nose.</I><BR>* <B>this/that leads (me) to sth</B><BR>used to introduce a new subject that is connected to the previous one<BR>　*<I>That leads me to my final point. Where are we going to get the money?</I><BR>* <B>sb has their own life to lead</B><BR>used to say that someone wants to be able to live their life independently, without having to do things that other people want them to do<BR>* <B>lead sb a merry old dance/a right old dance</B><BR><I>BrE</I> to cause a lot of problems or worries for someone<BR>* <B>market-led/export-led etc</B><BR>most influenced by the market, by <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/export"><U>export</U></A> s etc<BR>　*<I>an export-led economic recovery</I><BR>* <B>lead the eye</B><BR>if a picture, view etc leads the eye in a particular direction, it makes you look in that direction<BR>　*<I>marble columns that lead the eye upward</I><BR>*<B>【CARD GAME】</B> [I and T]<BR>to play a particular card as your first card in one part of a card game<BR><B>lead off</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>*to start a meeting, discussion, performance etc by saying or doing something<BR>　*<I>I'd like to lead off by thanking Rick for coming.</I><BR><B>lead off with</B><BR>　*<I>The French team led off with two quick goals in the first five minutes.</I><BR><B>lead sth⇔off</B><BR>　*<I>Hal led the evening off with some folk songs.</I><BR>* <B>lead off (sth)</B><BR>if a road, room etc leads off a place, you can go directly from that place along that road, into that room etc<BR><B>lead off from sth</B><BR>　*<I>He pointed down a street leading off from the square.</I><BR>　*<I>a large room, with doors leading off it in all directions</I><BR>*to be the first player to try to hit the ball in an <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/inning"><U>inning</U></A> (=period of play) in a game of baseball<BR><B>lead on</B> [lead sb on] <I>phr v</I><BR>to deceive someone, especially to make them think you love them<BR>　*<I>He thought she loved him, but in fact she was just leading him on.</I><BR><B>lead on to</B> [lead on to sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>to cause something to develop or become possible at a later time<BR>　*<I>Alan Turing's work led onto the development of modern computers.</I><BR><B>lead with</B> [lead with sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>*if a newspaper or television programme leads with a particular story, that story is the main one<BR>　*<I>The Washington Post leads with the latest news from Israel.</I><BR>*to use a particular hand to begin an attack in <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/boxing"><U>boxing</U></A>, or a particular foot to begin a dance<BR>　*<I>Adam led with his left and punched his opponent on the jaw.</I><BR><B>lead up to</B> [lead up to sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>*if a series of events or a period of time leads up to an event, it comes before it or causes it<BR>　*<I>the weeks that led up to her death</I><BR>　*<I>the events leading up to his dismissal</I><BR>*to gradually introduce an embarrassing, upsetting, or surprising subject into a conversation<BR>　*<I>She had already guessed what he was leading up to.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>lead</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">lead<SUP>2</SUP> <B>W2S2</B> <I>n</I> <BR>* <B>the lead</B><BR>the first position in a race or competition<BR>　*<I>She <B>was in the lead</B> from start to finish.</I><BR>　*<I>The Canadians <B>went into the lead</B> after only 30 seconds.</I><BR>　*<I>The goal <B>put</B> Holland <B>into the lead</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>The Bears <B>took the lead</B> for the first time this season.</I><BR>* [singular] <BR>the amount or distance by which one competitor is ahead of another<BR>　*<I>The Chicago Bulls <B>had a narrow lead</B> (=were winning by a small number of points) .</I><BR><B>lead over</B><BR>　*<I>The Socialists now have a commanding lead over their opponents.</I><BR>* [singular] <BR>if someone follows someone else's lead, they do the same as the other person has done<BR>　*<I>Other countries are likely to <B>follow</B> the U.S.'s <B>lead</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>The Government should <B>give</B> industry a <B>lead</B> in tackling racism (=show what other people should do) .</I><BR>　*<I>The black population in the 1960s <B>looked to</B> Ali <B>for a lead</B> (=looked to him to show them what they should do) .</I><BR>* <B>take the lead (in doing sth)</B><BR>to be the first to start doing something or be most active in doing something<BR>　*<I>The U.S. took the lead in declaring war on terrorism.</I><BR>* [C] <BR>a piece of information that may help you to solve a crime or mystery<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/clue"><U>clue</U></A><BR>　*<I>The police have checked out dozens of leads, but have yet to find the killer.</I><BR>* [C] <BR>the main acting part in a play, film etc, or the main actor<BR><B>play the lead/the lead role</B><BR>　*<I>He will play the lead role in Hamlet.</I><BR>　*<I>Powers was <B>cast in</B> the <B>lead role</B> (=he was chosen to play it) .</I><BR><B>the male/female lead</B><BR>　*<I>They were having trouble casting the female lead.</I><BR>　*<I>the film's <B>romantic lead</B> </I><BR>* <B>lead singer/guitarist etc</B><BR>the main singer, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/guitarist"><U>guitarist</U></A> etc in a group<BR><B>lead singer/guitarist etc of/with</B><BR>　*<I>the lead singer of Nirvana</I><BR>* [C] <I>BrE</I> <BR>a piece of rope, leather, or chain for holding or controlling a dog<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/leash"><U>leash</U></A> <B>on a lead</B><BR>　*<I>All dogs must be kept on a lead.</I><BR>* [C] <I>BrE</I> <BR>a wire used to connect a piece of electrical equipment to the power supply<BR>American Equivalent: <B>cord</B><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/jump%20leads"><U>jump leads</U></A></B></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>lead</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">3</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">lead<SUP>3</SUP> /led/ <I>n</I> <BR><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/lead"><U>lead</U></A><BR>*[U] <BR>a soft heavy grey metal that melts easily and is poisonous, used to cover roofs, or in the past, for water pipes. It is a chemical <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/element"><U>element</U></A> : symbol Pb<BR>* [U and C] <BR>the central part of a pencil that makes the marks when you write<BR>* <B>go down like a lead balloon</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>if a suggestion or joke goes down like a lead balloon, people do not like it at all<BR>*[U] <I>AmE old-fashioned</I> bullets<BR>　*<I>They filled him full of lead.</I><BR>* <B>leads</B> [plural] <B>a)</B> sheets of lead used for covering a roof<BR><B>b)</B> narrow pieces of lead used for holding small pieces of glass together to form a window</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/conduct"><U>conduct</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/direct"><U>direct</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/escort"><U>escort</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/guide"><U>guide</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/head"><U>head</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/run"><U>run</U></A></DIV></DIV>
