---
layout: post
title:  "Drag"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">drag<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W3S3</B> /dræg/ <I>v past tense and past participle</I> <B>dragged</B> <I>present participle</I> <B>dragging</B>
<HR>
<B>1【pull something】</B><BR><B>2【pull somebody】</B><BR><B>3 drag yourself to/into/out of etc something</B><BR><B>4【persuade somebody to come】</B><BR><B>5【computer】</B><BR><B>6【be boring】</B><BR><B>7【touch the ground】</B><BR><B>8 drag your feet/heels</B><BR><B>9 drag a lake/river etc</B><BR><B>10 drag somebody's name through the mud</B><BR><B>11 drag somebody through the courts</B><BR><B>12 drag somebody kicking and screaming into something</B><BR><B>13 look as if you've been dragged through a hedge backwards</B><BR><B>14【injured leg/foot】</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>drag somebody/something⇔down</B><BR>　<B>drag somebody/something into something</B><BR>　<B>drag on</B><BR>　<B>drag something⇔out</B><BR>　<B>drag something out of somebody</B><BR>　<B>drag somebody/something⇔up</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1300-1400; Language: Old Norse; Origin: draga or <I>Old English</I> dragan; <B>DRAW<SUP>1</SUP></B>]<BR>*<B>【PULL SOMETHING】</B> [T]<BR>to pull something along the ground, often because it is too heavy to carry<BR><B>drag sth away/along/through etc</B><BR>　*<I>Inge managed to drag the table into the kitchen.</I><BR>*<B>【PULL SOMEBODY】</B> [T always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to pull someone somewhere where they do not want to go, in a way that is not gentle<BR>　*<I>He grabbed her arm and dragged her into the room.</I><BR>* <B>drag yourself to/into/out of etc sth</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to move somewhere with difficulty, especially because you are ill, tired, or unhappy<BR>　*<I>I dragged myself out of bed and into the bathroom.</I><BR>　*<I>Can you <B>drag yourself away from</B> (=stop watching) the TV for a minute?</I><BR>*<B>【PERSUADE SOMEBODY TO COME】</B> [T always + adverb/preposition] <I>informal</I><BR>if you drag someone somewhere, you persuade or force them to come with you when they do not want to<BR>　*<I>Mom dragged us to a classical music concert.</I><BR>*<B>【COMPUTER】</B> [T]<BR>to move words, pictures etc on a computer screen by pulling them along with the <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/mouse"><U>mouse</U></A><BR>　*<I>You can <B>drag and drop</B> text like this.</I><BR>*<B>【BE BORING】</B> [I]<BR>if time or an event drags, it seems to go very slowly because nothing interesting is happening<BR>　*<I>Friday afternoons always drag.</I><BR>*<B>【TOUCH THE GROUND】</B> [I]<BR>if something is dragging along the ground, part of it is touching the ground as you move<BR><B>drag along/in/on</B><BR>　*<I>Your coat's dragging in the mud.</I><BR>* <B>drag your feet/heels</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to take too much time to do something because you do not want to do it<BR>　*<I>The authorities are dragging their feet over banning cigarette advertising.</I><BR>* <B>drag a lake/river etc</B><BR>to look for something in a lake, river etc by pulling a heavy net along the bottom<BR>　*<I>The police are dragging the lake for the missing girl's body.</I><BR>* <B>drag sb's name through the mud</B><BR>to tell people about the bad things that someone has done, so that they will have a bad opinion of them<BR>* <B>drag sb through the courts</B><BR>to force someone to go to a court of law, especially in order to make them have a bad experience because you are angry with them<BR>* <B>drag sb kicking and screaming into sth</B><BR>to force someone to do something that they do not want to - used humorously<BR>　*<I>The party will have to be dragged kicking and screaming into the 21st century.</I><BR>* <B>look as if you've been dragged through a hedge backwards</B><BR>to look very untidy - used humorously<BR>*<B>【INJURED LEG/FOOT】</B> [T]<BR>if you drag your leg, foot etc, you cannot lift it off the ground as you walk because it is injured<BR>　*<I>a bird dragging its broken wing</I><BR><B>drag down</B> [drag sb/sth⇔down] <I>phr v</I><BR>*to make someone feel unhappy and weak<BR>　*<I>Joe's been ill for weeks now - it's really dragging him down.</I><BR>*to make the price, level, or quality of something go down<BR>　*<I>Declining prices for aluminium have dragged down the company's earnings.</I><BR>*if someone or something bad drags you down, they make you become worse or get into a worse situation<BR>　*<I>Don't let them <B>drag</B> you <B>down to</B> their <B>level</B> .</I><BR><B>drag into</B> [drag sb/sth into sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>*to make someone get involved in an argument, war, or other unpleasant situation that they do not want to be involved in<BR>　*<I>I'm sorry to drag you into this mess.</I><BR>*to talk about something when you are having a discussion or argument, even though it is not connected with it<BR>　*<I>Don't drag my past into this!</I><BR><B>drag on</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>if an event or situation drags on, it continues for too long<BR><B>drag on for</B><BR>　*<I>an expensive court battle that could drag on for years</I><BR><B>drag out</B> [drag sth⇔out] <I>phr v</I><BR>to make an event or situation last longer than is necessary<BR>　*<I>Neither of them wanted to drag the divorce out longer than they had to.</I><BR><B>drag out of</B> [drag sth out of sb] <I>phr v</I><BR>to make someone tell you something when they had not intended to tell you or were not supposed to tell you<BR>　*<I>Police finally dragged a confession out of him.</I><BR><B>drag up</B> [drag sb/sth⇔up] <I>phr v</I><BR>*to mention an unpleasant or embarrassing story from the past, even though it upsets someone<BR>　*<I>Why do you have to drag that up again?</I><BR>* <B>be dragged up</B><BR><I>BrE</I> if a child is dragged up, their parents do not teach them to behave properly - used humorously<BR>　*<I>Those children have been dragged up, not brought up!</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>drag</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">drag<SUP>2</SUP> <I>n</I> <BR>* <B>a drag</B> <I>informal</I> <BR><B>a)</B> something or someone that is boring<BR>　*<I>Don't be such a drag! Come to the party.</I><BR><B>b)</B> something that is annoying and continues for a long time<BR>　*<I>It's a <B>real drag</B> having to travel so far to work every day.</I><BR>* <B>be a drag on sb/sth</B><BR>to make it hard for someone to make progress towards what they want<BR>　*<I>Any slowdown in the economy is going to be a drag on the President's re-election campaign.</I><BR>* [C] <BR>the act of breathing in smoke from your cigarette<BR>　*<I>Frank <B>took a drag</B> on his cigarette.</I><BR>* <B>in drag</B><BR>wearing clothes worn by the opposite sex, especially to entertain people<BR>　*<I>The whole performance is done in drag.</I><BR>*[U] <BR>the force of air that pushes against an aircraft or a vehicle that is moving forward<BR>　*<I>The car's rounded edges reduce drag.</I><BR>* <B>the main drag</B><BR><I>AmE informal</I> the biggest or longest street that goes through a town<BR>　*<I>Our hotel is right on the main drag.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/crawl"><U>crawl</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/creep"><U>creep</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/delay"><U>delay</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dillydally"><U>dillydally</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/draw"><U>draw</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/haul"><U>haul</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/heave"><U>heave</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/lag"><U>lag</U></A> <A ref="{{ site.baseurl }}/pull"><U>pull</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/tarry"><U>tarry</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/tow"><U>tow</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/tug"><U>tug</U></A></DIV></DIV>
