---
layout: post
title:  "Escape"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">es<B>·</B>cape<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W2S3</B> /ɪˈskeɪp/ <I>v</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【person/place】</B><BR><B>2【danger】</B><BR><B>3【avoid】</B><BR><B>4【gas/liquid etc】</B><BR><B>5【sound】</B><BR><B>6 escape somebody's attention/notice</B><BR><B>7 the name/date/title etc escapes somebody</B><BR><B>8 there's no escaping (the fact)</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1200-1300; Language: Old North French; Origin: escaper, from <I>Vulgar Latin</I> excappare, from <I>Late Latin</I> cappa <I>'head-covering'</I>; from the idea of throwing off something that limits your movement]<BR>*<B>【PERSON/PLACE】</B> [I]<BR>to get away from a place or dangerous situation when someone is trying to catch you or stop you<BR>　*<I>He broke down the locked door and escaped.</I><BR><B>escape from/through/over etc</B><BR>　*<I>He escaped from prison in October.</I><BR><B>escape to</B><BR>　*<I>She escaped to Britain in 1938.</I><BR>*<B>【DANGER】</B> [I and T]<BR>to get away from a dangerous or bad situation<BR><B>escape with</B><BR>　*<I>He escaped with minor injuries.</I><BR><B>escape unhurt/unscathed/unharmed etc</B><BR>　*<I>A boy escaped unhurt when the fire in his room exploded.</I><BR>　*<I>They went to the hills to escape the summer heat.</I><BR><B>escape sb's clutches</B><BR>(=escape from someone)<BR>　*<I>The youth was trying to escape the clutches of two drunken female companions.</I><BR>*<B>【AVOID】</B> [I and T]<BR>to avoid something bad or that you do not want to happen<BR>　*<I>He <B>narrowly escaped</B> death in an avalanche.</I><BR>　*<I>The two passengers <B>escaped</B> serious <B>injury</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>They must not be allowed to <B>escape justice</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>It seemed impossible he would <B>escape detection</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【GAS/LIQUID ETC】</B> [I]<BR>if gas, liquid, light, heat etc escapes from somewhere, it comes out<BR>　*<I>Vents allow any steam to escape if the system overheats.</I><BR>*<B>【SOUND】</B> [I and T]<BR><I>literary</I> if a sound escapes from someone, they accidentally make that sound<BR>　*<I>A small laugh escaped her.</I><BR><B>escape from</B><BR>　*<I>Holman let a weary sigh escape from his lips.</I><BR>* <B>escape sb's attention/notice</B><BR>if something escapes your attention or notice, you do not see it or realize that it is there<BR>* <B>the name/date/title etc escapes sb</B><BR>used to say that someone cannot remember something<BR>　*<I>For some reason which escapes me, we had to take a taxi.</I><BR>* <B>there's no escaping (the fact)</B><BR>used to emphasize that something is definitely important or will definitely happen<BR>　*<I>There's no escaping the fact that work has profound effects on emotions and health.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>escape</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">escape<SUP>2</SUP> <B>S3</B> <I>n</I> <BR>* [U and C] <BR>the act of getting away from a place, or a dangerous or bad situation<BR>　*<I>The girl had no chance of escape.</I><BR>　*<I>Christina hoped it wouldn't be too long before she could <B>make</B> her <B>escape</B> .</I><BR><B>escape from</B><BR>　*<I>the firm's <B>narrow escape</B> from bankruptcy</I><BR>　*<I>an <B>escape route</B> </I><BR>　*<I>They <B>had</B> a <B>lucky escape</B> (=were lucky not to be hurt or killed) when a car crashed into the front of their house.</I><BR>* [singular, U] <BR>a way of forgetting about a bad or boring situation for a short time<BR><B>escape from</B><BR>　*<I>Travel can be an escape from the routine drudgery of life.</I><BR>* [U and C] <BR>an amount of gas, liquid etc that accidentally comes out of the place where it is being kept, or an occasion when this happens<BR>　*<I>The lid prevents the escape of poisonous gases.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fire%20escape"><U>fire escape</U></A></B></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/evade"><U>evade</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/flee"><U>flee</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/get%20away"><U>get away</U></A></DIV></DIV>
