---
layout: post
title:  "Crack"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">crack<SUP>1</SUP> <B>S3</B> /kræk/ <I>v</I>
<HR>
<B>1【break】</B><BR><B>2【sound】</B><BR><B>3【hit】</B><BR><B>4【not be able to continue】</B><BR><B>5【voice】</B><BR><B>6【solve/understand】</B><BR><B>7【stop somebody】</B><BR><B>8【open a safe】</B><BR><B>9【computer】</B><BR><B>10 crack it</B><BR><B>11 crack a joke</B><BR><B>12 crack open a bottle</B><BR><B>13 get cracking</B><BR><B>14 crack the whip</B><BR><B>15 something is not all/everything it's cracked up to be</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>crack down</B><BR>　<B>crack into something</B><BR>　<B>crack on</B><BR>　<B>crack up</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English; Origin: cracian]<BR>*<B>【BREAK】</B> [I and T]<BR>to break or to make something break, either so that it gets lines on its surface, or so that it breaks into pieces<BR>　*<I>Don't put boiling water in the glass or it will crack.</I><BR>　*<I>Concrete is liable to crack in very cold weather.</I><BR>　*<I>He picked up a piece of rock and cracked it in half.</I><BR>　*<I>She fell and cracked a bone in her leg.</I><BR>　*<I>He cracked a couple of eggs into a pan.</I><BR>*<B>【SOUND】</B> [I and T]<BR>to make a quick loud sound like the sound of something breaking, or to make something do this<BR>　*<I>Thunder cracked overhead.</I><BR>　*<I>He cracked his whip and galloped off.</I><BR>　*<I>Dennis rubbed his hands together and <B>cracked</B> his <B>knuckles</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【HIT】</B> [T]<BR>to hit someone or something hard<BR><B>crack sth on sth</B><BR>　*<I>I slipped and cracked my head on the door.</I><BR>　*<I>She <B>cracked</B> him <B>over the head</B> with a hammer.</I><BR>*<B>【NOT BE ABLE TO CONTINUE】</B> [I]<BR>to be unable to continue doing something because there is too much pressure and you do not have the mental strength to continue<BR><B>crack under</B><BR>　*<I>Some young executives crack under the pressure of having to meet tough sales targets every month.</I><BR>　*<I>He cracked under interrogation and confessed.</I><BR>*<B>【VOICE】</B> [I]<BR>if your voice cracks, it starts to sound different because you are feeling strong emotions<BR>　*<I>His voice cracked slightly as he tried to explain.</I><BR>*<B>【SOLVE/UNDERSTAND】</B> [T]<BR>to find the answer to a problem or manage to understand something that is difficult to understand<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/solve"><U>solve</U></A><BR>　*<I>I think we've <B>cracked</B> the <B>problem</B> of the computer crashing all the time.</I><BR>　*<I>It took them nearly two months to <B>crack</B> the <B>code</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>This new evidence could help detectives to <B>crack</B> the <B>case</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【STOP SOMEBODY】</B> [T] <I>informal</I><BR>to stop a person from being successful<BR>　*<I>His political enemies have never managed to crack him.</I><BR>*<B>【OPEN A SAFE】</B> [T]<BR>to open a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/safe"><U>safe</U></A> illegally in order to steal the things inside it<BR>*<B>【COMPUTER】</B> [T]<BR>to illegally copy computer software or change free software which may lack certain features of the full <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/version"><U>version</U></A>, so that the free software works in the same way as the full version<BR>　*<I>You can find out how to crack any kind of software on the web.</I><BR>* <B>crack it</B><BR><I>BrE informal</I> to manage to do something successfully<BR>　*<I>I think we've cracked it!</I><BR>　*<I>He seems to have <B>got it cracked</B> .</I><BR>* <B>crack a joke</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to tell a joke<BR>　*<I>He kept cracking jokes about my appearance.</I><BR>* <B>crack open a bottle</B><BR><I>BrE informal</I> to open a bottle of alcohol for drinking<BR>　*<I>We cracked open a few bottles.</I><BR>* <B>get cracking</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to start doing something or going somewhere quickly<BR>　*<I>I think we need to get cracking if we're going to catch this train.</I><BR>* <B>crack the whip</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to make people work very hard<BR>* <B>sth is not all/everything it's cracked up to be</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>used to say that something is not as good as people say it is<BR>　*<I>I thought the film was OK, but it's not all it's cracked up to be.</I><BR><B>crack down</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>to become more strict in dealing with a problem and punishing the people involved<BR><B>crack down on</B><BR>　*<I>The government is determined to crack down on terrorism.</I><BR>　*<I>The police are <B>cracking down hard</B> on violent crime.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/crackdown"><U>crackdown</U></A></B><BR><B>crack into</B> [crack into sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>to secretly enter someone else's computer system, especially in order to damage the system or steal the information stored on it<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/hack"><U>hack</U></A><BR>　*<I>A teenager was accused of cracking into the company's network.</I><BR><B>crack on</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>to continue working hard at something in order to finish it<BR><B>crack on with</B><BR>　*<I>I need to crack on with my project work this weekend.</I><BR><B>crack up</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>* <B>crack (sb) up</B><BR>to laugh a lot at something, or to make someone laugh a lot<BR>　*<I>Everyone in the class just cracked up.</I><BR>　*<I>She's so funny. She cracks me up.</I><BR>*to become unable to think or behave sensibly because you have too many problems or too much work<BR>　*<I>I was beginning to think I was cracking up!</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>crack</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">crack<SUP>2</SUP> <I>n</I>
<HR>
<B>1【gap】</B><BR><B>2【break】</B><BR><B>3【weakness】</B><BR><B>4【sound】</B><BR><B>5【joke】</B><BR><B>6【attempt】</B><BR><B>7【drug】</B><BR><B>8【body】</B><BR><B>9 a crack on the head</B><BR><B>10 a crack in somebody's voice</B><BR><B>11 the crack of dawn</B><BR><B>12【computer】</B><BR><B>13 a fair crack of the whip</B>
<HR>
*<B>【GAP】</B> [C] <BR>a very narrow space between two things or two parts of something<BR><B>crack between</B><BR>　*<I>He squeezed into a crack between two rocks.</I><BR><B>crack in</B><BR>　*<I>He could see them through a crack in the door.</I><BR>　*<I>She <B>opened</B> the door <B>a crack</B> and peeped into the room.</I><BR>*<B>【BREAK】</B> [C] <BR>a thin line on the surface of something when it is broken but has not actually come apart<BR><B>crack in</B><BR>　*<I>There were several small cracks in the glass.</I><BR>*<B>【WEAKNESS】</B> [C] <BR>a weakness or fault in an idea, system, or organization<BR><B>crack in</B><BR>　*<I>The cracks in their relationship were starting to show.</I><BR>　*<I>The first <B>cracks</B> are beginning to <B>appear</B> in the economic policy.</I><BR>*<B>【SOUND】</B> [C] <BR>a sudden loud sound like the sound of a stick being broken<BR><B>loud/sharp crack</B><BR>　*<I>There was a sharp crack as the branch broke off.</I><BR><B>crack of</B><BR>　*<I>We could hear the crack of gunfire in the distance.</I><BR>　*<I>a crack of thunder</I><BR>*<B>【JOKE】</B> [C] <I>informal</I> <BR>a clever joke or rude remark<BR><B>crack about</B><BR>　*<I>I didn't like his crack about her being overweight.</I><BR>　*<I>He's always <B>making cracks</B> about how stupid I am.</I><BR>*<B>【ATTEMPT】</B> [C] <I>informal</I> <BR>an attempt to do something<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/shot"><U>shot</U></A> <B>crack at</B><BR>　*<I>I'd like a crack at climbing that mountain.</I><BR>　*<I>The competition's open to anyone - why don't you <B>have a crack</B> ?</I><BR>*<B>【DRUG】</B>[U]<BR>an illegal drug that some people take for pleasure<BR>　*<I>crack addicts</I><BR>*<B>【BODY】</B> [C] <I>informal</I> <BR>the space between someone's <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/buttock"><U>buttocks</U></A><BR>* <B>a crack on the head</B><BR>a hard hit on the head<BR>　*<I>You've had a nasty crack on the head and you need to rest.</I><BR>* <B>a crack in sb's voice</B><BR>a change in someone's voice because they are feeling very upset<BR>　*<I>He noticed the crack in her voice as she tried to continue.</I><BR>* <B>the crack of dawn</B><BR>very early in the morning<BR><B>at the crack of dawn</B><BR>　*<I>We were up at the crack of dawn.</I><BR>*<B>【COMPUTER】</B> [C] <BR>a piece of information or computer <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/code"><U>code</U></A> that lets you illegally change free software which may lack certain features of the full <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/version"><U>version</U></A>, so that the free software works in the same way as the full version<BR>* <B>a fair crack of the whip</B><BR><I>BrE informal</I> the same chance as other people to do something<BR>　*<I>They feel they haven't been <B>given a fair crack of the whip</B> .</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>crack</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">3</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">crack<SUP>3</SUP> <I>adj</I> [only before noun] <BR>*with a lot of experience and skill<BR>　*<I>crack troops</I><BR>　*<I>a crack regiment</I><BR>　*<I>a crack sportsman</I><BR>* <B>crack shot</B><BR>someone who is able to shoot a weapon very well and hit the thing they are aiming at</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bang"><U>bang</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/blow"><U>blow</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/break"><U>break</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/noise"><U>noise</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/open"><U>open</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/shot"><U>shot</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/slit"><U>slit</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/split"><U>split</U></A></DIV></DIV>
