---
layout: post
title:  "Roll"
categories: home
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">roll<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W3S1</B> /rəul US roul/ <I>v</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【round object】</B><BR><B>2【person/animal】</B><BR><B>3【shape of tube/ball】</B><BR><B>4【make something flat】</B><BR><B>5【clothes】</B><BR><B>6【something with wheels】</B><BR><B>7【drop of liquid】</B><BR><B>8【waves/clouds】</B><BR><B>9【game】</B><BR><B>10【sound】</B><BR><B>11【machine/camera】</B><BR><B>12【ship/plane】</B><BR><B>13【cigarette】</B><BR><B>14【shoulders】</B><BR><B>15【eyes】</B><BR><B>16【attack】</B><BR><B>17 (all) rolled into one</B><BR><B>18 get (something) rolling</B><BR><B>19 be rolling in money/dough/cash/it</B><BR><B>20 be rolling in the aisles</B><BR><B>21 be ready to roll</B><BR><B>22 let's roll</B><BR><B>23 roll with the punches</B><BR><B>24 roll on something</B><BR><B>25 roll your r's</B><BR><B>26 a rolling stone gathers no moss</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>roll around</B><BR>　<B>roll something⇔back</B><BR>　<B>roll something⇔down</B><BR>　<B>roll in</B><BR>　<B>roll out</B><BR>　<B>roll (somebody) over</B><BR>　<B>roll up</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1300-1400; Language: Old French; Origin: roller, from <I>Vulgar Latin</I> rotulare, from <I>Latin</I> rotula; <B>ROLL<SUP>2</SUP></B>]<BR>*<B>【ROUND OBJECT】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition, T]<BR>if something rolls, especially something round, or if you roll it, it moves along a surface by turning over and over<BR><B>roll down/into/through etc</B><BR>　*<I>The ball rolled into the street.</I><BR>　*<I>One of the eggs rolled off the counter.</I><BR><B>roll sth along/in/onto etc sth</B><BR>　*<I>Roll the chicken breasts in flour.</I><BR>*<B>【PERSON/ANIMAL】</B> <I>also</I> <B>roll over</B> [I,T always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to turn your body over one or more times while lying down, or to turn someone else's body over<BR><B>roll down/onto/off etc</B><BR>　*<I>The children rolled down the hill, laughing.</I><BR>　*<I>Ralph rolled onto his stomach.</I><BR><B>roll sb onto/off sth</B><BR>　*<I>I tried to roll him onto his side.</I><BR>*<B>【SHAPE OF TUBE/BALL】</B> <I>also</I> <B>roll up</B> [T]<BR>to make something into the shape of a tube or ball<BR><B>roll sth into a ball/tube</B><BR>　*<I>Roll the dough into small balls.</I><BR>　*<I>Would you like the paper rolled or folded?</I><BR>*<B>【MAKE SOMETHING FLAT】</B> [T]<BR>to make something flat by rolling something heavy over it<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rolling%20pin"><U>rolling pin</U></A><BR>　*<I>Pizza dough should be rolled thinly.</I><BR>*<B>【CLOTHES】</B> [T]<BR><I>also</I> <B>roll up</B> <BR>to fold the sleeves or legs of something that you are wearing upwards, so that they are shorter<BR>　*<I>His sleeves were rolled above his elbows.</I><BR>*<B>【SOMETHING WITH WHEELS】</B> [I,T always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to move on wheels, or make something that has wheels move<BR><B>roll into/forwards/past etc</B><BR>　*<I>Her car was slowly rolling away from the curb.</I><BR><B>roll sth to/around etc sth</B><BR>　*<I>The waitress rolled the dessert trolley over to our table.</I><BR>*<B>【DROP OF LIQUID】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to move over a surface smoothly without stopping<BR><B>roll down/onto etc</B><BR>　*<I>Tears rolled down her cheeks.</I><BR>*<B>【WAVES/CLOUDS】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to move continuously in a particular direction<BR><B>roll into/towards etc</B><BR>　*<I>Mist rolled in from the sea.</I><BR>　*<I>We watched the waves rolling onto the beach.</I><BR>*<B>【GAME】</B> [I and T]<BR>if you roll <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dice"><U>dice</U></A>, you throw them as part of a game<BR>*<B>【SOUND】</B> [I]<BR>if drums or <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/thunder"><U>thunder</U></A> roll, they make a long low series of sounds<BR>　*<I>Thunder rolled in the distance.</I><BR>*<B>【MACHINE/CAMERA】</B> [I]<BR>if a machine such as a film camera or a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/printing%20press"><U>printing press</U></A> rolls, it operates<BR>　*<I>There was silence as the cameras started to roll.</I><BR>*<B>【SHIP/PLANE】</B> [I]<BR>if a ship or plane rolls, it leans one way and then another with the movement of the water or air<BR>*<B>【CIGARETTE】</B> [T]<BR>to make your own cigarette, using tobacco or <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/marijuana"><U>marijuana</U></A> and special paper<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/roll-up"><U>roll-up</U></A><BR>　*<I>Ben <B>rolled</B> a <B>joint</B> (=a cigarette containing marijuana) and lit it.</I><BR>　*<I>It's cheaper to <B>roll</B> your <B>own</B> (=make your own cigarettes) .</I><BR>*<B>【SHOULDERS】</B> [T]<BR>to move your shoulders forward, up, and back down<BR>　*<I>He rolled his shoulders back.</I><BR>*<B>【EYES】</B> [T]<BR>to move your eyes around and up, especially in order to show that you are annoyed or think something is silly<BR>　*<I>Lucy rolled her eyes as Tom sat down beside her.</I><BR>*<B>【ATTACK】</B> [T]<BR><I>AmE informal</I> to rob someone, especially when they are drunk and asleep<BR>　*<I>Kids on the streets rolled drunks for small change.</I><BR>* <B>(all) rolled into one</B><BR>if someone or something is several different things rolled into one, they include or do the work of all those things<BR>　*<I>Mum was cook, chauffeur, nurse, and entertainer all rolled into one.</I><BR>* <B>get (sth) rolling</B><BR>to start happening or make something start happening in a smooth and successful way<BR>　*<I>The business didn't really get rolling until 1975.</I><BR>　*<I>Have a good breakfast to get your day rolling.</I><BR>* <B>be rolling in money/dough/cash/it</B><BR>to have or earn a lot of money<BR>　*<I>'He's rolling in it,' said the girl, pointing at Lewis.</I><BR>* <B>be rolling in the aisles</B><BR>if people in a theatre, cinema etc are rolling in the aisles, they are laughing a lot<BR>* <B>be ready to roll</B><BR><I>spoken</I> to be ready to start doing something<BR>　*<I>The car was packed and we were ready to roll.</I><BR>* <B>let's roll</B><BR><I>spoken</I> used to suggest to a group of people that you all begin doing something or go somewhere<BR>* <B>roll with the punches</B><BR>to deal with problems or difficulties by doing whatever you need to do, rather than by trying only one method<BR>　*<I>Strong industries were able to roll with the punches during the recession.</I><BR>* <B>roll on sth</B><BR><I>BrE spoken</I> used to say that you wish a time or event would come quickly<BR>　*<I>Roll on the weekend!</I><BR>* <B>roll your r's</B><BR>to pronounce the sound /r/ using your tongue in a way that makes the sound very long<BR>* <B>a rolling stone gathers no moss</B><BR>used to say that someone who often changes jobs, moves to different places etc is not able to have any permanent relationships or duties<BR>→<B>set/start/keep the ball rolling</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/ball"><U>ball</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(5)<BR>→<B>heads will roll</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/head"><U>head</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(36)<BR>→<B>let the good times roll</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/let"><U>let</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(20)<BR><B>roll around</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>if a time, event etc that happens regularly rolls around, it arrives or takes place again<BR>　*<I> <B>By the time</B> Wednesday <B>rolled around</B> , I still hadn't finished.</I><BR><B>roll back</B> [roll sth⇔back] <I>phr v</I><BR>*to reduce the influence or power of a law, system, government etc<BR>　*<I>a threat to roll back the legislation of the past 12 years</I><BR>* <I>especially AmE</I> to reduce a price, cost etc<BR>　*<I>the administration's promise to roll back taxes</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rollback"><U>rollback</U></A></B><BR>*to force your opponents in a war to move back from their position<BR>* <B>roll back the years</B><BR><I>BrE</I> to make someone remember something from the past<BR>　*<I>Looking at those old photos really rolled back the years.</I><BR><B>roll down</B> [roll sth⇔down] <I>phr v</I><BR>* <B>roll a window down</B><BR>to open a car window<BR>*to unfold the ends of your sleeves or trouser legs so that they are their usual length<BR>　*<I>He rolled down his sleeves and buttoned the cuffs.</I><BR><B>roll in</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>*to happen or arrive in large numbers or quantities<BR>　*<I>As the result of our appeal, the money came rolling in.</I><BR>*to arrive, especially later than usual or expected<BR>　*<I>Chris finally rolled in at about 4:00 am.</I><BR>*if mist, clouds etc roll in, they begin to cover an area of the sky or land<BR>　*<I>Fog rolled in from the sea.</I><BR><B>roll out</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>* <B>roll sth⇔ out</B><BR>to make food that you are preparing flat and thin by pushing a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rolling%20pin"><U>rolling pin</U></A> over it<BR>　*<I>Roll out the dough on a floured surface.</I><BR>* <B>roll sth⇔out</B><BR>to make a new product available for people to buy or use<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/launch"><U>launch</U></A><BR>　*<I>The company expects to roll out the new software in September.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/roll-out"><U>roll-out</U></A></B><BR>*to leave a place, especially later than expected<BR><B>roll out of</B><BR>　*<I>We used to hear people rolling out of the pubs at closing time.</I><BR>　*<I>He finally rolled out of bed at noon.</I><BR>* <B>roll sth⇔ out</B><BR>to put something flat on the ground or a surface, when it was previously rolled into a tube shape<BR>　*<I>We rolled out our sleeping bags under the stars.</I><BR>* <B>roll out the red carpet</B><BR>to make special preparations for an important visitor<BR><B>roll () over</B> [roll (sb) over] <I>phr v</I><BR>to turn your body over once so that you are lying in a different position, or to turn someone's body over<BR>　*<I>Ben rolled over and kissed her.</I><BR><B>roll (somebody) over onto</B><BR>　*<I>The guards rolled him over onto his front.</I><BR><B>roll up</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>*to make something into the shape of a tube or ball, or to become this shape<BR><B>roll sth⇔up</B><BR>　*<I>Painters arrived and rolled up the carpet.</I><BR><B>roll up into</B><BR>　*<I>Many animals roll up into a ball for warmth.</I><BR>* <B>roll your sleeves/trousers etc up</B><BR>to turn the ends of your sleeves or trouser legs over several times so that they are shorter<BR>* <B>roll your sleeves up</B><BR>to start doing a job even though it is difficult or you do not want to do it<BR>　*<I>It's time to roll up our sleeves and get some work done on the basics.</I><BR>* <B>roll a window up</B><BR>to close the window of a car<BR>*to arrive somewhere, especially late or when you were not expected<BR>　*<I>Max rolled up just after 9 o'clock.</I><BR>* <B>roll up!</B><BR><I>BrE spoken</I> used to call people to come and watch or buy things at a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/circus"><U>circus</U></A> or <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fair"><U>fair</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>roll</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">roll<SUP>2</SUP> <I>n</I> [C] 
<HR>
<B>1【paper/film/money etc】</B><BR><B>2【bread】</B><BR><B>3【list of names】</B><BR><B>4 be on a roll</B><BR><B>5【game】</B><BR><B>6【skin/fat】</B><BR><B>7【physical movement】</B><BR><B>8【drums/guns/thunder】</B><BR><B>9【ship/plane】</B><BR><B>10 a roll in the hay</B>
<HR>
[<B>Sense: 1-3, 6</B>; Date: 1100-1200; Language: Old French; Origin: rolle <I>'rolled-up document'</I>, from <I>Latin</I> rotula, from rota; <B>ROTATE</B>]<BR>[<B>Sense: 4-5, 7-10</B>; Date: 1600-1700; Origin: <B>ROLL<SUP>1</SUP></B>]<BR>*<B>【PAPER/FILM/MONEY ETC】</B><BR>a piece of paper, camera film, money etc that has been rolled into the shape of a tube<BR><B>roll of</B><BR>　*<I>I used up three rolls of film on holiday.</I><BR>　*<I>There's a new roll of silver foil in there.</I><BR>　*<I>wallpaper costing £3 a roll</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/kitchen%20roll"><U>kitchen roll</U></A>, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/toilet%20roll"><U>toilet roll</U></A></B><BR>*<B>【BREAD】</B><BR>a small round <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/loaf"><U>loaf</U></A> of bread for one person<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bun"><U>bun</U></A><BR>　*<I>hot soup served with crusty rolls</I><BR>　*<I> <B>bread rolls</B> with butter</I><BR><B>ham/cheese etc roll</B><BR><I>BrE</I> (=one that is filled with ham, cheese etc) <BR>*<B>【LIST OF NAMES】</B><BR>an official list of names<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/register"><U>register</U></A> <B>on the roll</B> <I>BrE</I><BR>　*<I>a school with 300 pupils on the roll</I><BR><B>call/take the roll</B><BR>(=say the list of names to check who is there)<BR>　*<I>The teacher called the roll.</I><BR>　*<I>Three senators missed the roll call.</I><BR><B>the electoral roll</B><BR><I>BrE</I> <B>; the (voter) rolls</B><BR><I>AmE</I> (=a list of the people who are allowed to vote) <BR><B>welfare rolls</B><BR><I>AmE</I> (=a list of people without jobs who claim money from the state)<BR>　*<I>Thompson said he had cut welfare rolls by 39%.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/roll%20of%20honour"><U>roll of honour</U></A>, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/honor%20roll"><U>honor roll</U></A></B><BR>* <B>be on a roll</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to be having a lot of success with what you are trying to do<BR>　*<I>Midvale High was on a roll, having won their last six basketball games.</I><BR>*<B>【GAME】</B><BR>the action of throwing <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dice"><U>dice</U></A> as part of a game<BR>　*<I>If you get a 7 or 11 on your first roll, you win.</I><BR>*<B>【SKIN/FAT】</B><BR>a thick layer of skin or fat, usually just below your waist<BR><B>roll of</B><BR>　*<I>the rolls of fat on her stomach</I><BR>*<B>【PHYSICAL MOVEMENT】</B><BR><B>a)</B> <I>BrE</I> a movement in which you roll forward or back in a controlled way with your body curled so that your head is near your feet, often done as part of a sport<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/somersault"><U>somersault</U></A><BR>　*<I>a forward roll</I><BR>　*<I>gymnasts <B>doing rolls</B> and handsprings</I><BR><B>b)</B> <I>especially BrE</I> the action of turning your body over one or more times while lying down<BR>　*<I>a young horse <B>having a roll</B> in the field</I><BR>*<B>【DRUMS/GUNS/THUNDER】</B><BR>a long low fairly loud sound made by drums etc<BR>　*<I>There was a <B>roll of thunder</B> , and the rain started pelting down.</I><BR>　*<I>a <B>drum roll</B> </I><BR>*<B>【SHIP/PLANE】</B><BR>the movement of a ship or plane when it leans from side to side with the movement of the water or air<BR>* <B>a roll in the hay</B><BR><I>old-fashioned informal</I> when you have sex with someone - used humorously<BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rock%20%27n%27%20roll"><U>rock 'n' roll</U></A>, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/sausage%20roll"><U>sausage roll</U></A>, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/spring%20roll"><U>spring roll</U></A>, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/Swiss%20roll"><U>Swiss roll</U></A></B></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/gyrate"><U>gyrate</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/move"><U>move</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/pivot"><U>pivot</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rotate"><U>rotate</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/swivel"><U>swivel</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/turn"><U>turn</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/wheel"><U>wheel</U></A></DIV></DIV>
