---
layout: post
title:  "Brush"
categories: home
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">brush<SUP>1</SUP> <B>S3</B> /brʌʃ/ <I>n</I> <BR>
<HR>
<B>1【object for cleaning/painting】</B><BR><B>2【trees】</B><BR><B>3【movement】</B><BR><B>4【touch】</B><BR><B>5</B><BR><B>6【tail】</B>
<HR>
[<B>Sense: 1, 3-6</B>; Date: 1300-1400; Origin: Early <I>French</I> broisse, from <I>Old French</I> broce ( <B>BRUSH<SUP>1</SUP>2</B>); probably because branches from bushes and trees were used to make brushes.]<BR>[<B>Sense: 2</B>; Date: 1300-1400; Language: Old French; Origin: broce <I>'broken branches, brushwood'</I>]<BR>*<B>【OBJECT FOR CLEANING/PAINTING】</B> [C] <BR>an object that you use for cleaning, painting, making your hair tidy etc, made with a lot of hairs, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bristle"><U>bristles</U></A>, or thin pieces of plastic fastened to a handle<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/broom"><U>broom</U></A><BR>　*<I>a scrubbing brush</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/hairbrush"><U>hairbrush</U></A>, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/nailbrush"><U>nailbrush</U></A>, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/paintbrush"><U>paintbrush</U></A>, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/toothbrush"><U>toothbrush</U></A></B><BR>*<B>【TREES】</B>[U]<BR><B>a)</B> small bushes and trees that cover an area of land<BR><B>b)</B> branches that have broken off bushes and trees<BR>*<B>【MOVEMENT】</B> [singular]<BR>a movement in which you brush something to remove dirt, make something smooth, tidy etc<BR>　*<I>I'll just <B>give</B> my hair a quick <B>brush</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【TOUCH】</B> [singular]<BR>a quick light touch, made by chance when two things or people pass each other<BR>　*<I>the brush of her silk dress as she walked past</I><BR>* [C] <BR>a time when you only just avoid an unpleasant situation or argument<BR><B>brush with</B><BR>　*<I>His first <B>brush with the law</B> came when he was arrested for disorderly behaviour.</I><BR>　*<I>A <B>brush with death</B> can make you appreciate life more.</I><BR>*<B>【TAIL】</B> [C] <BR>the tail of a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fox"><U>fox</U></A><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/broadbrush"><U>broadbrush</U></A>,daft as a brush</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/daft"><U>daft</U></A></B></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>brush</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">brush<SUP>2</SUP> <I>v</I> <BR>
<HR>
<B>1【clean/make tidy】</B><BR><B>2【remove】</B><BR><B>3【touch lightly】</B><BR><B>4【put something on something】</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>brush somebody/something⇔aside</B><BR>　<B>brush somebody/something⇔down</B><BR>　<B>brush somebody/something⇔off</B><BR>　<B>brush up (on) something</B>
<HR>
*<B>【CLEAN/MAKE TIDY】</B> [T]<BR>to clean something or make something smooth and tidy using a brush<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/sweep"><U>sweep</U></A><BR>　*<I>Don't forget to brush your teeth.</I><BR>*<B>【REMOVE】</B> [T always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to remove something with a brush or with your hand<BR><B>brush sth off/from etc sth</B><BR>　*<I>Ella brushed the crumbs off her jacket.</I><BR>　*<I>He brushed the tears from his eyes.</I><BR>*<B>【TOUCH LIGHTLY】</B> [&gt;I always + adv/prep, T]<BR>to touch someone or something lightly when passing them<BR>　*<I>Something brushed her shoulders.</I><BR><B>brush against</B><BR>　*<I>I felt her hair brush against my arm.</I><BR><B>brush past</B><BR>　*<I>Nell brushed past him in the doorway.</I><BR>*<B>【PUT SOMETHING ON SOMETHING】</B> [T always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to put a liquid onto something using a brush<BR><B>brush sth with sth</B><BR>　*<I>Brush the pastry with milk.</I><BR><B>brush sth over/onto sth</B><BR>　*<I>Brush a little oil over the top of the pizza.</I><BR>→<B>brush sth under the carpet</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/sweep"><U>sweep</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(15)<BR><B>brush aside</B> [brush sb/sth⇔aside] <I>phr v</I><BR>to refuse to listen to someone, or refuse to consider something<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dismiss"><U>dismiss</U></A><BR>　*<I>He simply brushed all my objections aside.</I><BR><B>brush down</B> [brush sb/sth⇔down] <I>phr v</I><BR>*to clean something using a brush<BR>　*<I>He was brushing the pony down.</I><BR>* <B>brush yourself down</B><BR>to use your hands to remove dirt from your clothes, especially after you have fallen<BR><B>brush off</B> [brush sb/sth⇔off] <I>phr v</I><BR>to refuse to listen to someone or their ideas, especially by ignoring them or saying something rude<BR>　*<I>Corman brushed off accusations that he had acted dishonestly.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/brush-off"><U>brush-off</U></A></B><BR><B>brush up (on)</B> [brush up (on) sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>to practise and improve your skills or your knowledge of something that you learned in the past<BR>　*<I>I must brush up on my French before I go to Paris.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/clean"><U>clean</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/remove"><U>remove</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rub"><U>rub</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/wipe"><U>wipe</U></A></DIV></DIV>
