---
layout: post
title:  "Courtesy"
categories: undefined
tag: good
word_phonetic: /ˈkəːtɪsi/
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">cour<B>·</B>te<B>·</B>sy<SUP>1</SUP> /ˈkəːtɪsi US ˈkəːr-/ <I>n</I> <I>plural</I> <B>courtesies</B> <BR>[Date: 1200-1300; Language: Old French; Origin: corteisie, from corteis; <B>COURTEOUS</B>]<BR>*[U] <BR>polite behaviour and respect for other people<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/politeness"><U>politeness</U></A><BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/discourtesy"><U>discourtesy</U></A><BR>　*<I>It's a matter of <B>common courtesy</B> to acknowledge letters.</I><BR><B>have the courtesy to do sth</B><BR>　*<I>He didn't even have the courtesy to call and say he couldn't come.</I><BR>* [C] <BR>something you do or say to be polite<BR>　*<I>The two men <B>exchanged courtesies</B> before getting down to business.</I><BR>* <B>(by) courtesy of sb</B><BR>by someone's permission or kindness, rather than by paying them<BR>　*<I>photographs supplied courtesy of Blenheim Palace</I><BR>* <B>(by) courtesy of sth</B><BR>if one thing happens courtesy of another, the second thing caused the first<BR>　*<I>Healy received a deep cut on his left hand, courtesy of Nicol's ice skate.</I><BR>* <B>do sb the courtesy of doing sth</B><BR>to be polite enough to do something for someone<BR>　*<I>At least do me the courtesy of telling the truth.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>courtesy</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">courtesy<SUP>2</SUP> <I>adj</I> [only before noun] <BR>*provided free to a customer by a company<BR><B>courtesy bus/taxi/car/phone etc</B><BR>　*<I>The hotel runs a courtesy bus from the airport.</I><BR>　*<I>Most reviewers receive a courtesy copy of the book.</I><BR>* <B>courtesy visit/call</B><BR>a visit etc done to be polite or show respect<BR>　*<I>Our captain put in a courtesy visit during dinner.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/discourtesy"><U>discourtesy</U></A></DIV></DIV>

> Courtesy reminder from Auckland Libraries
>
> Courtesy Notice
>
> The item/s listed are almost due. To avoid fines please return or renew by the due date. Items can usually be renewed twice if they are not reserved by other patrons. For rental items or if you are unable to renew, please contact the library.
