---
layout: post
title:  "Swing"
categories: school
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">swing<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W3</B> /swɪŋ/ <I>v past tense and past participle</I> <B>swung</B> /swʌŋ/
<HR>
<B>1【move from a fixed point】</B><BR><B>2【move in a curve】</B><BR><B>3【hit】</B><BR><B>4【change opinions/emotions】</B><BR><B>5 swing into action</B><BR><B>6【play】</B><BR><B>7【arrange something】</B><BR><B>8 swing both ways</B><BR><B>9 swing the lead</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>swing around/round</B><BR>　<B>swing by</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English; Origin: swingan <I>'to beat, go quickly'</I>]<BR>*<B>【MOVE FROM A FIXED POINT】</B> [I and T]<BR>to make regular movements forwards and backwards or from one side to another while hanging from a particular point, or to make something do this<BR>　*<I>Let your arms swing as you walk.</I><BR>　*<I>a sign swinging in the wind</I><BR>　*<I>He was <B>swinging</B> his bag <B>back and forth</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>She <B>swung</B> her legs <B>from side to side</B> .</I><BR><B>swing sth by sth</B><BR>　*<I>He marched around, swinging the gun by its handle.</I><BR>*<B>【MOVE IN A CURVE】</B> [I,T always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to move quickly in a smooth curve in one direction, or to make something do this<BR>　*<I>A black car swung into the drive.</I><BR>　*<I>Kate swung her legs out of bed.</I><BR><B>swing open/shut</B><BR>　*<I>The heavy door swung shut.</I><BR>　*<I>Swinging her bag over her shoulder, she hurried on.</I><BR>*<B>【HIT】</B> [I and T]<BR>to move your arm or something you are holding to try and hit something<BR><B>swing sth at sb/sth</B><BR>　*<I>She swung her bag at him.</I><BR><B>swing at sb/sth (with sth)</B><BR>　*<I>Garson swung at the ball and missed.</I><BR>　*<I>He started swinging at me with his fists.</I><BR>*<B>【CHANGE OPINIONS/EMOTIONS】</B> [I and T]<BR>if emotions or opinions swing, or if something swings them, they change quickly to the opposite of what they were<BR><B>swing from sth to sth</B><BR>　*<I>His <B>mood</B> could <B>swing</B> from joy to despair.</I><BR>　*<I>Do campaign gifts <B>swing votes</B> ?</I><BR>　*<I>The war had begun to <B>swing in</B> Britain's <B>favor</B> .</I><BR><B>swing to the Right/Left</B><BR>(=in politics) <BR>* <B>swing into action</B><BR>to suddenly begin work that needs doing, using a lot of energy and effort<BR>　*<I>Politicians have already swung into action.</I><BR>*<B>【PLAY】</B> [I]<BR>to sit on a swing and make it move backwards and forwards by moving your legs<BR>*<B>【ARRANGE SOMETHING】</B> [T]<BR><I>spoken</I> to arrange for something to happen, although it takes a lot of effort to do this<BR>　*<I>We managed to <B>swing it</B> so that they we'll travel together.</I><BR>* <B>swing both ways</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>someone who swings both ways is <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bisexual"><U>bisexual</U></A><BR>* <B>swing the lead</B><BR><I>BrE</I> to avoid work by pretending to be ill<BR>→<B>there's not enough room to swing a cat</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/room"><U>room</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(5)<BR><B>swing around/round</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>to turn around quickly, or to make something do this<BR>　*<I>She swung around to face him.</I><BR><B>swing sth/sb⇔around/round</B><BR>　*<I>He swung the boat around and headed for the shore.</I><BR><B>swing by</B> <I>phr v</I><BR><B>swing by (sth)</B><BR>to visit a place or person for a short time<BR>　*<I>I'll swing by the grocery store on my way.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>swing</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">swing<SUP>2</SUP> <B>S3</B> <I>n</I> <BR>
<HR>
<B>1【seat with ropes】</B><BR><B>2【movement】</B><BR><B>3【change】</B><BR><B>4【sports】</B><BR><B>5【music】</B><BR><B>6 get into the swing of it/things</B><BR><B>7 be in full swing</B><BR><B>8 go with a swing</B><BR><B>9 swings and roundabouts</B>
<HR>
*<B>【SEAT WITH ROPES】</B> [C] <BR>a seat hanging from ropes or chains, usually used by children play on by moving it forwards and backwards using their legs<BR>　*<I>kids <B>playing on the swings</B> </I><BR>　*<I>a porch swing</I><BR>*<B>【MOVEMENT】</B> [C] <BR>a curved movement made with your arm, leg etc<BR>　*<I>He <B>took a swing at</B> (=tried to hit) my head and missed.</I><BR>　*<I>the swing of her hips as she walked</I><BR>*<B>【CHANGE】</B> [C] <BR>a noticeable change in opinions or emotions<BR><B>swing to/towards/between etc</B><BR>　*<I>a big swing towards right-wing ideology</I><BR>　*<I>She suffers from <B>mood swings</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【SPORTS】</B> [singular]<BR>the movement you make when you hit the ball in <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/golf"><U>golf</U></A>, baseball, or some other sports<BR>　*<I>I spent months correcting my swing.</I><BR>*<B>【MUSIC】</B>[U]<BR>a type of dance music played by a big band in the 1930s and 1940s that is similar to <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/jazz"><U>jazz</U></A><BR>* <B>get into the swing of it/things</B><BR>to become fully involved in an activity<BR>　*<I>Once we got into the swing of it, it took no time at all.</I><BR>* <B>be in full swing</B><BR>if an event or process is in full swing, it has reached its highest level of activity<BR>　*<I>By midnight the end-of-course party was in full swing.</I><BR>* <B>go with a swing</B><BR><I>BrE</I> if a party or activity goes with a swing, it is enjoyable and successful<BR>　*<I>everything you need to <B>make</B> your party <B>go with a swing</B> </I><BR>* <B>swings and roundabouts</B><BR><I>BrE</I> used to say that two choices have an equal number of gains and losses, so there is little difference between them</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dangle"><U>dangle</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fluctuate"><U>fluctuate</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/hang"><U>hang</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/lurch"><U>lurch</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/reel"><U>reel</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rock"><U>rock</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/roll"><U>roll</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/sway"><U>sway</U></A></DIV></DIV>
