---
layout: post
title:  "Danger"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">dan<B>·</B>ger<BR><B>W2S2</B> /ˈdeɪndʒə US -ər/ <I>n</I> <BR>[Date: 1200-1300; Language: Old French; Origin: dangier, from <I>Vulgar Latin</I> dominiarium <I>'power to do harm'</I>, from <I>Latin</I> dominium <I>'ownership'</I>]<BR>*[U] <BR>the possibility that someone or something will be harmed, destroyed, or killed<BR>　*<I>Danger! No boats beyond this point.</I><BR><B>in danger</B><BR>　*<I>The refugees believe that their lives are in danger.</I><BR>　*<I>I don't want to <B>put</B> you <B>in danger</B> .</I><BR><B>danger of</B><BR>　*<I>The danger of a fire in the home increases during the holidays.</I><BR><B>be in danger of (doing) sth</B><BR>　*<I>The bridge was in danger of collapsing.</I><BR><B>grave/great/real/serious etc danger</B><BR>　*<I>The condor was in grave danger of extinction.</I><BR><B>danger from</B><BR>　*<I>The public was not aware of the danger from nuclear tests in Nevada.</I><BR><B>out of danger</B><BR>　*<I>The patient is now out of danger.</I><BR>　*<I>Pedestrians on this road <B>face</B> constant <B>danger</B> from cars.</I><BR>* [U and C] <BR>the possibility that something bad will happen<BR><B>be in danger of (doing) sth</B><BR>　*<I>The party is in danger of being defeated in the next election.</I><BR><B>danger that</B><BR>　*<I>There is a danger that museums will attempt to entertain rather than educate.</I><BR><B>the danger of (doing) sth</B><BR>　*<I>to guard against the danger of becoming isolated</I><BR>* [C] <BR>something or someone that may harm or kill you<BR>　*<I>the dangers that abound in the region</I><BR><B>danger of</B><BR>　*<I>Children need to be educated about the dangers of drug use.</I><BR><B>be a danger to sb/sth</B><BR>　*<I>The wreck is a danger to other ships.</I><BR>* <B>there's no danger of sth</B><BR>used to say that something will not happen<BR>　*<I>There's no danger of Darren ever getting up early.</I><BR>* <B>be on the danger list</B><BR><I>BrE</I> to be so ill that you may die</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/safety"><U>safety</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/secure"><U>secure</U></A></DIV></DIV>
