---
layout: post
title:  "Spin"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">spin<SUP>1</SUP> <B>S3</B> /spɪn/ <I>v past tense and past participle</I> <B>spun</B> /spʌn/ <I>present participle</I> <B>spinning</B> 
<HR>
<B>1【turn around】</B><BR><B>2 somebody's head is spinning</B><BR><B>3【situation/information】</B><BR><B>4 spin a tale/story/yarn</B><BR><B>5【wool/cotton】</B><BR><B>6【drive】</B><BR><B>7 spin your wheels</B><BR><B>8【wet clothes】</B><BR><B>9【insect】</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>spin off</B><BR>　<B>spin out</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English; Origin: spinnan]<BR>*<B>【TURN AROUND】</B> [I and T]<BR>to turn around and around very quickly, or to make something do this<BR>　*<I>The plane's propellers were spinning.</I><BR><B>spin (sth/sb) around</B><BR>　*<I>She grabbed Norm's arm and spun him around to face her.</I><BR>* <B>sb's head is spinning</B> <I>also</I> <B>the room is spinning</B><BR>if your head or the room is spinning, you feel as if you might <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/faint"><U>faint</U></A> (=become unconscious) because you are shocked, excited, or drunk<BR>　*<I>I was pouring with sweat, and my head was spinning.</I><BR>　*<I>The room started to spin.</I><BR>*<B>【SITUATION/INFORMATION】</B> [T]<BR>to describe a situation or information in a way that is intended to influence the way people think about it - used especially about what politicians or business people do<BR>　*<I>Supporters attempted to spin the bill's defeat to their advantage.</I><BR>* <B>spin a tale/story/yarn</B><BR>to tell a story, especially using a lot of imagination<BR>　*<I>She spun a story about a trip to Athens to meet one of the authors.</I><BR>*<B>【WOOL/COTTON】</B> [I and T]<BR>to make cotton, wool etc into thread by twisting it<BR>*<B>【DRIVE】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR><I>written</I> to drive or travel quickly<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/speed"><U>speed</U></A> <B>spin past/along etc</B><BR>　*<I>Barbara spun past in her new sportscar.</I><BR>* <B>spin your wheels</B><BR><I>AmE</I> to continue trying to do something without having any success<BR>　*<I>I felt like I was just spinning my wheels trying to make him understand.</I><BR>*<B>【WET CLOTHES】</B> [T]<BR><I>BrE</I> to get water out of clothes using a machine after you have washed them<BR>*<B>【INSECT】</B> [T]<BR>if a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/spider"><U>spider</U></A> or insect spins a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/web"><U>web</U></A> or <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cocoon"><U>cocoon</U></A>, it produces thread to make it<BR><B>spin off</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>to make part of a company into a separate and partly independent company, or to become a separate company<BR><B>spin sth⇔off</B><BR>　*<I>At the time of the merger, Loral spun off its space divisions into a separate firm.</I><BR><B>spin off from</B><BR>　*<I>Lucent spun off from AT&amp;T in 1995.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/spin-off"><U>spin-off</U></A></B><BR><B>spin out</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>* <B>spin sth⇔out</B><BR><I>BrE</I> to make something continue for longer than is necessary<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/drag%20out"><U>drag out</U></A><BR>　*<I>I'm paid by the hour, so I spin the work out as long as I can.</I><BR>* <B>spin sth⇔out</B><BR><I>BrE</I> to use money, food etc as carefully and slowly as possible, because you do not have very much of it<BR><B>spin something⇔out over</B><BR>　*<I>I've only got £10 left, so we'll have to spin it out over the whole week.</I><BR>* <I>AmE</I> if a car spins out, the driver loses control of it and the car spins around</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>spin</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">spin<SUP>2</SUP> <I>n</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【turning】</B><BR><B>2【car】</B><BR><B>3【ball】</B><BR><B>4【information】</B><BR><B>5【aircraft】</B><BR><B>6 in/into a (flat) spin</B><BR><B>7【wet clothes】</B>
<HR>
*<B>【TURNING】</B> [C] <BR>an act of turning around quickly<BR>　*<I>the Earth's spin</I><BR>　*<I>The Russian skater finished her routine with a series of spins.</I><BR>*<B>【CAR】</B> [singular] <I>informal</I><BR>a short trip in a car for pleasure<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/drive"><U>drive</U></A><BR>　*<I>Let's <B>go for a spin</B> in the country.</I><BR>　*<I>Do you want to <B>take</B> my car <B>for a spin</B> ?</I><BR>*<B>【BALL】</B>[U]<BR>if you put spin on a ball in a game such as tennis or <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cricket"><U>cricket</U></A>, you deliberately make the ball turn very quickly so that it is difficult for your opponent to hit<BR>*<B>【INFORMATION】</B> [singular, U]<BR>the way someone, especially a politician or business person, talks about information or a situation, especially in order to influence the way people think about it<BR>　*<I>They tried to <B>put a</B> positive <B>spin on</B> the sales figures.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/spin%20doctor"><U>spin doctor</U></A></B><BR>*<B>【AIRCRAFT】</B> [singular]<BR>if an aircraft goes into a spin, it falls suddenly, turning around and around<BR>* <B>in/into a (flat) spin</B><BR>if you are in a spin, you are very confused and anxious<BR>　*<I>The sudden fall on the stock-market sent brokers into a spin.</I><BR>*<B>【WET CLOTHES】</B><BR><B>give sth a spin</B><BR><I>BrE</I> to turn clothes around very fast in a machine to remove water from them</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/pivot"><U>pivot</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/reel"><U>reel</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rotate"><U>rotate</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/swirl"><U>swirl</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/turn"><U>turn</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/twirl"><U>twirl</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/twist"><U>twist</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/wheel"><U>wheel</U></A></DIV></DIV>
