---
layout: post
title:  "Blow"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">blow<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W3S2</B> /bləu US blou/ <I>v past tense</I> <B>blew</B> /bluː/ <I>past participle</I> <B>blown</B> / US bloun/
<HR>
<B>1【wind moving】</B><BR><B>2【wind moving something】</B><BR><B>3【air from your mouth】</B><BR><B>4【make a noise】</B><BR><B>5【violence】</B><BR><B>6【lose an opportunity】</B><BR><B>7【waste money】</B><BR><B>8 blow your nose</B><BR><B>9 blow somebody a kiss</B><BR><B>10【electricity stops】</B><BR><B>11【tyre】</B><BR><B>12【make a shape】</B><BR><B>13【surprise/annoyance】</B><BR><B>14【tell a secret】</B><BR><B>15 blow somebody's mind</B><BR><B>16 blow your top/stack/cool</B><BR><B>16 blow a fuse/gasket</B><BR><B>17 blow the whistle on somebody</B><BR><B>18 blow something (up) out of (all) proportion</B><BR><B>19 blow your own trumpet</B><BR><B>19 blow your own horn</B><BR><B>20 blow somebody/something out of the water</B><BR><B>21 blow hot and cold</B><BR><B>22 blow something sky-high</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>blow sb⇔ away</B><BR>　<B>blow down</B><BR>　<B>blow in</B><BR>　<B>blow somebody/something⇔off</B><BR>　<B>blow out</B><BR>　<B>blow over</B><BR>　<B>blow up</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English; Origin: blawan]<BR>*<B>【WIND MOVING】</B> [I and T]<BR>if the wind or a current of air blows, it moves<BR>　*<I>A cold breeze was <B>blowing hard</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>It was blowing from an easterly direction.</I><BR>　*<I>Outside, the weather was <B>blowing a gale</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【WIND MOVING SOMETHING】</B> [I,T usually + adverb/preposition]<BR>to move or to move something by the force of the wind or a current of air<BR>　*<I>Her hair was blowing in the breeze.</I><BR>　*<I>The wind blew the rain into our faces.</I><BR>　*<I>My ticket blew away.</I><BR><B>blow (sth) open/shut</B><BR>　*<I>A sudden draught <B>blew</B> the <B>door shut</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【AIR FROM YOUR MOUTH】</B> [I,T always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to send air out from your mouth<BR><B>blow (sth) into/onto/out etc</B><BR>　*<I>She blew onto her coffee to cool it down.</I><BR>　*<I>He blew the smoke right in my face.</I><BR>　*<I>You'll have to blow harder than that!</I><BR>*<B>【MAKE A NOISE】</B> [I and T]<BR>to make a sound by passing air through a whistle, horn etc<BR>　*<I>The whistle blew for halftime.</I><BR>　*<I>A truck went by and blew its horn at her.</I><BR>*<B>【VIOLENCE】</B> [T always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to damage or destroy something violently with an explosion or by shooting<BR><B>blow sth away/out/off sth</B><BR>　*<I>Part of his leg had been blown off.</I><BR><B>blow sth/sb to pieces/bits/smithereens</B><BR>　*<I>A bomb like that could blow you to bits.</I><BR>*<B>【LOSE AN OPPORTUNITY】</B> [T] <I>informal</I><BR>to lose a good opportunity by making a mistake or by being careless<BR>　*<I>We've <B>blown</B> our <B>chances</B> of getting that contract.</I><BR>　*<I>You've got a great future ahead of you. Don't <B>blow it</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【WASTE MONEY】</B> [T] <I>informal</I><BR>to spend a lot of money in a careless way, especially on one thing<BR>　*<I>I blew all the money I won on a trip to Hawaii.</I><BR>* <B>blow your nose</B><BR>to clean your nose by forcing air through it into a cloth or a piece of soft paper<BR>* <B>blow sb a kiss</B><BR>to kiss your hand and then pretend to blow the kiss towards someone<BR>　*<I>She leant out of the window and blew him a kiss.</I><BR>*<B>【ELECTRICITY STOPS】</B> [I and T]<BR>if an electrical <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fuse"><U>fuse</U></A> blows, or a piece of electrical equipment blows a fuse, the electricity suddenly stops working because a thin wire has melted<BR>　*<I>The floodlights blew a fuse.</I><BR>*<B>【TYRE】</B> [I and T]<BR>if a tyre blows or if a car blows a tyre, it bursts<BR>*<B>【MAKE A SHAPE】</B> [T]<BR>to make or shape something by sending air out from your mouth<BR>　*<I>The kids were <B>blowing bubbles</B> in the backyard.</I><BR><B>blow glass</B><BR>(=shape glass by blowing into it when it is very hot and soft) <BR>*<B>【SURPRISE/ANNOYANCE】</B><BR><B>blow/blow me/blow it etc</B><BR><I>BrE spoken</I> said to show annoyance or surprise<BR>　*<I>Blow it! I forgot to phone Jane.</I><BR>　*<I> <B>Blow me down</B> if she didn't just run off!</I><BR>　*<I>Well, <B>I'm blowed</B> !</I><BR>*<B>【TELL A SECRET】</B> [T]<BR>to make known something that was meant to be a secret<BR>　*<I>Your coming here has blown the whole operation.</I><BR><B>blow sb's cover</B><BR>(=make known what someone's real job or name is)<BR>　*<I>It would only take one phone call to blow his cover.</I><BR>* <B>blow sb's mind</B><BR><I>spoken</I> to make you feel very surprised and excited by something<BR>　*<I>Seeing her again really blew my mind.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/mind-blowing"><U>mind-blowing</U></A></B><BR>* <B>blow your top/stack/cool</B> <I>also</I> <B>blow a fuse/gasket</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to become extremely angry quickly or suddenly<BR>　*<I>One day, I just blew my top and hit him.</I><BR>* <B>blow the whistle on sb</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to tell someone in authority about something wrong that someone is doing<BR>　*<I>He blew the whistle on his colleagues.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/whistle-blower"><U>whistle-blower</U></A></B><BR>* <B>blow sth (up) out of (all) proportion</B><BR>to make something seem much more serious or important than it is<BR>　*<I>The issue was blown up out of all proportion.</I><BR>* <B>blow your own trumpet</B><BR><I>especially BrE also</I> <B>blow your own horn</B><BR><I>AmE informal</I> to talk a lot about your own achievements - used to show disapproval<BR>　*<I>Dave spent the whole evening blowing his own trumpet.</I><BR>* <B>blow sb/sth out of the water</B><BR>to defeat someone or something that you are competing with, or to achieve much more than they do<BR>　*<I>Motown had blown all the other record companies out of the water.</I><BR>* <B>blow hot and cold</B><BR><I>BrE informal</I> to keep changing your attitude towards someone or something<BR>* <B>blow sth sky-high</B><BR><I>BrE</I> to destroy an idea, plan etc by showing that it cannot be true or effective<BR>　*<I>This new information blows his theory sky-high.</I><BR><B>blow sb away</B> [blow sb⇔ away] <I>phr v</I><BR>*to make someone feel very surprised, especially about something they like or admire<BR>　*<I>It just blows me away, the way everyone's so friendly round here.</I><BR>*to kill someone by shooting them with a gun<BR>　*<I>One move and I'll blow you away!</I><BR>*to defeat someone completely, especially in a game<BR>　*<I>Nancy blew away the rest of the skaters.</I><BR><B>blow down</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>if the wind blows something down, or if something blows down, the wind makes it fall<BR>　*<I>The garden gate has blown down.</I><BR><B>blow sth⇔down</B><BR>　*<I>Several trees were blown down in the night.</I><BR><B>blow in</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>* <I>also</I> <B>blow into sth</B> <BR><I>informal</I> to arrive in a place, especially suddenly<BR>　*<I>Jim blew in about an hour ago.</I><BR>　*<I>Guess who's just <B>blown into town</B> ?</I><BR>*if a storm or bad weather blows in, it arrives and begins to affect a particular area<BR>　*<I>The first snowstorm blew in from the north.</I><BR><B>blow off</B> [blow sb/sth⇔off] <I>phr v</I><BR>*to treat someone or something as unimportant, for example by not meeting someone or not going to an event<BR>　*<I>Tanya just blew me off - she said she didn't want to see me any more.</I><BR>　*<I>Bud got into trouble for blowing off the meeting.</I><BR>* <B>blow the lid off sth</B><BR>to make known something that was secret, especially something involving important or famous people<BR>　*<I>Her book blew the lid off the Reagan years.</I><BR>* <B>blow sb's head off</B><BR>to kill someone by shooting them in the head<BR>* <B>blow off steam</B><BR><I>AmE</I> to get rid of anger or energy by doing something<BR>British Equivalent: <B>let off steam</B><BR>　*<I>I went jogging to blow off some steam.</I><BR><B>blow out</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>*if you blow a flame or a fire out, or if it blows out, it stops burning<BR>　*<I>The match blew out in the wind.</I><BR><B>blow sth⇔out</B><BR>　*<I>Blow out all the candles.</I><BR>*if a tyre blows out, it bursts<BR>* <B>blow itself out</B><BR>if a storm blows itself out, it ends<BR>* <B>blow your/sb's brains out</B><BR>to kill yourself or someone else with a shot to the head<BR>* <B>blow sb⇔out</B><BR><I>AmE spoken</I> to easily defeat someone<BR>　*<I>We blew them out 28 - 0.</I><BR>* <I>AmE</I> if you blow out your knee or another joint in your body, or if it blows out, you injure it badly<BR>*if an oil or gas <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/well"><U>well</U></A> blows out, oil or gas suddenly escapes from it<BR>* <B>blow sb out</B><BR>to stop having a friendship or relationship with someone<BR><B>blow over</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>*if the wind blows something over, or if something blows over, the wind makes it fall<BR>　*<I>Our fence blew over in the storm.</I><BR><B>blow sth⇔over</B><BR>　*<I>The hurricane blew some palm trees over.</I><BR>*if an argument or unpleasant situation blows over, it ends or is forgotten<BR>　*<I>They weren't speaking to each other, but I think it's blown over now.</I><BR>*if a storm blows over, it goes away<BR><B>blow up</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>*to destroy something, or to be destroyed, by an explosion<BR>　*<I>The plane blew up in mid-air.</I><BR><B>blow sth⇔up</B><BR>　*<I>Rebels attempted to blow up the bridge.</I><BR>* <B>blow sth⇔up</B><BR>to fill something with air or gas<BR>　*<I>Can you <B>blow up</B> this <B>balloon</B> ?</I><BR>　*<I>We'll <B>blow</B> the <B>tyres up</B> .</I><BR>*if a situation, argument etc blows up, it suddenly becomes important or dangerous<BR>　*<I>A crisis had blown up over the peace talks.</I><BR>* <B>blow sth⇔up</B><BR>if you blow up a photograph, you make it larger<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/enlarge"><U>enlarge</U></A><BR>　*<I>How much would it cost to have this photo blown up?</I><BR>* <I>informal</I> to become very angry with someone<BR>　*<I>Jenny's father blew up when she didn't come home last night.</I><BR><B>blow up at</B><BR>　*<I>I was surprised at the way he blew up at Hardy.</I><BR>*if bad weather blows up, it suddenly arrives<BR>　*<I>It looks as if there's a storm blowing up.</I><BR>* <B>blow up in sb's face</B><BR>if something you have done or planned to do blows up in your face, it suddenly goes wrong<BR>　*<I>One of his deals had just blown up in his face.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>blow</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">blow<SUP>2</SUP> <B>W3</B> <I>n</I> [C] 
<HR>
<B>1【BAD EFFECT 】</B><BR><B>2【hard hit】</B><BR><B>3【blowing】</B><BR><B>4 come to blows (with somebody)</B><BR><B>5 soften/cushion the blow</B><BR><B>6 low blow</B>
<HR>
[<B>Sense: 1-2, 4-6</B>; Date: 1400-1500; Origin: Origin unknown.]<BR>[<B>Sense: 3</B>; Date: 1600-1700; Origin: <B>BLOW<SUP>1</SUP></B>]<BR>*<B>【BAD EFFECT 】</B><BR>an action or event that causes difficulty or sadness for someone<BR>　*<I>Joe resigned, which was a <B>severe blow</B> because we needed him desperately.</I> <BR>* <I>His mother's death was a <B>shattering blow</B> .</I> <BR>* <I>The election result <B>dealt a</B> further <B>blow to</B> the party.</I> <BR>　*<I>The factory closures <B>came as a blow</B> to the local economy.</I><BR>　*<I>The <B>final blow</B> for many firms was the government's abolition of import duties.</I><BR>*<B>【HARD HIT】</B><BR>a hard hit with someone's hand, a tool, or a weapon<BR>　*<I>She died from a <B>heavy blow</B> to the head.</I><BR>　*<I>He <B>struck a blow</B> which threw her to the floor.</I><BR>　*<I>Martin <B>received a blow</B> on the nose.</I><BR>　*<I>He had been struck a <B>glancing blow</B> (=a blow that did not hit him directly) by the car.</I><BR><B>blow to</B><BR>　*<I>He gave her a violent blow to the head.</I><BR>*<B>【BLOWING】</B><BR>an action of blowing<BR>　*<I>One big blow and the candles were out.</I><BR>* <B>come to blows (with sb)</B><BR>if two people come to blows, they start arguing or hitting each other because they disagree about something<BR><B>come to blows (with somebody) over</B><BR>　*<I>They almost came to blows over the money.</I><BR>* <B>soften/cushion the blow</B><BR>to make something unpleasant easier for someone to accept<BR>　*<I>A reduction in interest rates would soften the blow of tax increases.</I><BR>* <B>low blow</B><BR><I>AmE informal</I> something unkind you say to deliberately embarrass or upset someone<BR>→<B>strike a blow for sb/sth</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/strike"><U>strike</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(13)
<HR>
<B>COLLOCATES for sense 1</B> <BR><B>serious/severe/major blow</B> <BR><B>shattering/devastating/bitter blow</B> (=something that makes you extremely disappointed and upset) <BR><B>cruel/heavy/grievous blow</B> <BR><B>deal a blow (to somebody/something)/deal (somebody/something) a blow</B> <BR><B>strike a blow</B> <BR><B>suffer/receive a blow</B> <BR><B>come as a blow (to somebody)</B> <BR><B>fatal/final/mortal blow</B> (=one that ends something) 
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/breeze"><U>breeze</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/knock"><U>knock</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/puff"><U>puff</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rap"><U>rap</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/stroke"><U>stroke</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/whack"><U>whack</U></A></DIV></DIV>
