---
layout: post
title:  "Pull"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">pull<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W1S1</B> /pul/ <I>v</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【move something towards you】</B><BR><B>2【remove】</B><BR><B>3【make something follow you】</B><BR><B>4【take something out】</B><BR><B>5【clothing】</B><BR><B>6【move your body】</B><BR><B>7【muscle】</B><BR><B>8 pull strings</B><BR><B>9 pull the/somebody's strings</B><BR><B>10【trick/crime】</B><BR><B>11 pull somebody's leg</B><BR><B>12 pull the other one (it's got bells on)</B><BR><B>13【switch】</B><BR><B>14 pull the curtains/blinds</B><BR><B>15【crowd/votes etc】</B><BR><B>16【attract/influence】</B><BR><B>17【sexually attract】</B><BR><B>18【stop event】</B><BR><B>19 pull somebody's licence</B><BR><B>20【stop a vehicle】</B><BR><B>21【car】</B><BR><B>22 something is like pulling teeth</B><BR><B>23【beer】</B><BR><B>24 pull a punch</B><BR><B>25【cricket/golf/baseball】</B><BR><B>26【row a boat】</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>pull ahead</B><BR>　<B>pull apart</B><BR>　<B>pull at/on something</B><BR>　<B>pull away</B><BR>　<B>pull back</B><BR>　<B>pull down</B><BR>　<B>pull for somebody/something</B><BR>　<B>pull in</B><BR>　<B>pull off</B><BR>　<B>pull on something</B><BR>　<B>pull out</B><BR>　<B>pull over</B><BR>　<B>pull (somebody) through</B><BR>　<B>pull together</B><BR>　<B>pull up</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English; Origin: pullian]<BR>*<B>【MOVE SOMETHING TOWARDS YOU】</B> [I and T]<BR>to use your hands to make something or someone move towards you or in the direction that your hands are moving<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/push"><U>push</U></A><BR>　*<I>Mom! Davey's pulling my hair!</I><BR><B>pull sb/sth into/away from/over etc sth</B><BR>　*<I>He pulled her down into her seat.</I><BR><B>pull sth open/shut</B><BR>　*<I>She pulled open the door and hurried inside.</I><BR>*<B>【REMOVE】</B> [T]<BR>to use force to take something from the place where it is fixed or held<BR>　*<I>She has to have two teeth pulled.</I><BR><B>pull sth out/off/away etc</B><BR>　*<I>Vicky had pulled the arm off her doll.</I><BR>*<B>【MAKE SOMETHING FOLLOW YOU】</B> [T]<BR>to be attached to something or hold something and make it move behind you in the direction you are going<BR>　*<I>a tractor pulling a trailer</I><BR>*<B>【TAKE SOMETHING OUT】</B> [T always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to take something out of a bag, pocket etc with your hand<BR>　*<I>He pulled out his wallet and said 'let me pay'.</I><BR>　*<I>Ben pulled a pen from his pocket.</I><BR><B>pull a gun/knife (on sb)</B><BR>(=take one out, ready to use it) <BR>*<B>【CLOTHING】</B> [T always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to put on or take off a piece of clothing, usually quickly<BR><B>pull on/off/up/down etc</B><BR>　*<I>He pulled off his damp shirt.</I><BR>*<B>【MOVE YOUR BODY】</B><BR><B>a)</B> [I,T always + adverb/preposition] <BR>to move your body or part of your body away from someone or something<BR><B>pull sth away/free</B><BR>　*<I>She tried to pull her hand free, but it was held fast.</I><BR><B>pull sth out of/from sth</B><BR>　*<I>She struggled fiercely, trying to pull her arm out of his grasp.</I><BR><B>pull away/back</B><BR>　*<I>She pulled away from him.</I><BR><B>b) pull yourself up/to your feet etc</B><BR>to hold onto something and use your strength to move your body towards it<BR>　*<I>Benny pulled himself up from the floor with difficulty.</I><BR>*<B>【MUSCLE】</B> [T]<BR>to injure one of your muscles by stretching it too much during physical activity<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/strain"><U>strain</U></A><BR>　*<I>Paul pulled a muscle trying to lift the freezer.</I><BR>* <B>pull strings</B><BR>to secretly use your influence with important people in order to get what you want or to help someone else<BR>　*<I>Francis pulled strings to get him out of trouble.</I><BR>* <B>pull the/sb's strings</B><BR>to control something or someone, especially when you are not the person who is supposed to be controlling them<BR>　*<I>It was widely believed that Montagu was secretly pulling the strings behind the prime minister.</I><BR>*<B>【TRICK/CRIME】</B> [T] <I>informal</I><BR>to succeed in doing something illegal or dishonest or in playing a trick on someone<BR>　*<I>The gang have pulled another bank robbery.</I><BR>　*<I>He was trying to <B>pull a fast one</B> (=deceive you) when he told you he'd paid.</I><BR><B>pull a stunt/trick/joke</B><BR>　*<I>Don't you ever pull a stunt like that again!</I><BR>* <B>pull sb's leg</B><BR>to tell someone something that is not true, as a joke<BR>　*<I>I haven't won, have I? You're pulling my leg.</I><BR>* <B>pull the other one (it's got bells on)</B><BR><I>BrE spoken</I> used to tell someone that you think they are joking or not telling the truth<BR>　*<I>Your dad's a racing driver? Pull the other one!</I><BR>*<B>【SWITCH】</B> [T]<BR>to move a control such as a switch, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/lever"><U>lever</U></A>, or <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/trigger"><U>trigger</U></A> towards you to make a piece of equipment work<BR>　*<I>She raised the gun, and pulled the trigger.</I><BR>* <B>pull the curtains/blinds</B><BR>to open or close curtains or <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/blind"><U>blinds</U></A><BR>　*<I>It was already getting dark so he pulled the curtains.</I><BR>*<B>【CROWD/VOTES ETC】</B> [T]<BR>if an event, performer etc pulls crowds or a politician pulls a lot of votes, a lot of people come to see them or vote for them<BR>　*<I>Muhammad Ali can still pull the crowds.</I><BR>*<B>【ATTRACT/INFLUENCE】</B> [T]<BR>to attract or influence someone or their thoughts or feelings<BR>　*<I>The city's reputation for a clean environment has pulled new residents from other states.</I><BR>*<B>【SEXUALLY ATTRACT】</B> [I and T]<BR><I>BrE spoken</I> to attract someone in order to have sex with them or spend the evening with them<BR>　*<I>He knew he could pull any girl he wanted.</I><BR>*<B>【STOP EVENT】</B> [T]<BR>to stop a planned event from taking place<BR>　*<I>They pulled the concert.</I><BR>* <B>pull sb's licence</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to take away someone's <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/licence"><U>licence</U></A> to do something, especially to drive a car, because they have done something wrong<BR>*<B>【STOP A VEHICLE】</B> [I and T]<BR>to drive a vehicle somewhere and stop; to stop somewhere<BR><B>pull sth into/towards/down etc sth</B><BR>　*<I>She pulled the car into a side street.</I><BR>　*<I>The bus <B>pulled to a halt</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【CAR】</B> [I]<BR>if a car pulls to the left or right as you are driving, it moves in that direction because of a problem with its machinery<BR>* <B>sth is like pulling teeth</B><BR>used to say that it is very difficult or unpleasant to persuade someone to do something<BR>　*<I>Getting him to do his homework is like pulling teeth.</I><BR>*<B>【BEER】</B> [T]<BR><I>BrE</I> to get beer out of a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/barrel"><U>barrel</U></A> by pulling a handle<BR>　*<I>The barman laughed and began to pull a couple of pints.</I><BR>* <B>pull a punch</B><BR>to deliberately hit someone with less force than you could do, so that it hurts less<BR>→<B>not pull any punches</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/punch"><U>punch</U></A> </B><SUP>2 </SUP>(6)<BR>*<B>【CRICKET/GOLF/BASEBALL】</B> [I and T]<BR>to hit the ball in <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cricket"><U>cricket</U></A>, golf, or baseball so that it does not go straight but moves to one side<BR>*<B>【ROW A BOAT】</B> [I and T]<BR>to make a boat move by using <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/oar"><U>oars</U></A><BR>→<B>pull/make a face</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/face"><U>face</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(2), <B>pull your finger out</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/finger"><U>finger</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(12), <B>pull rank (on sb)</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rank"><U>rank</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(5), <B>pull the rug (out) from under sb's feet</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rug"><U>rug</U></A> </B>, <B>pull the plug (on sth)</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/plug"><U>plug</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(5)<BR>→<B>pull your socks up</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/sock"><U>sock</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(3)<BR>→<B>pull your weight</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/weight"><U>weight</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(12)<BR>→<B>pull the wool over sb's eyes</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/wool"><U>wool</U></A></B><BR><B>pull ahead</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>if one vehicle pulls ahead of another, it gets in front of it by moving faster<BR>　*<I>Schumacher pulled ahead of Montoya as the two drivers approached the first corner of the race.</I><BR><B>pull apart</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>* <B>pull sth⇔apart</B><BR>to separate something into pieces<BR>　*<I>Pull the meat apart with two forks.</I><BR>* <B>pull sb⇔apart</B><BR>to make the relationships between people in a group bad or difficult<BR>　*<I>His drinking pulled the family apart.</I><BR>* <B>pull sth⇔apart</B><BR>to carefully examine or criticize something<BR>　*<I>The selection committee pulled each proposal apart.</I><BR>* <B>pull sb/sth⇔apart</B><BR>to separate people or animals when they are fighting<BR>　*<I>The fight ended only when the referee pulled the two players apart.</I><BR>*if something pulls apart, it breaks into pieces when you pull on it<BR><B>pull at/on</B> [pull at/on sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>*to take hold of something and pull it several times<BR>　*<I>Mary was pulling nervously at her hair.</I><BR>*to take smoke from a pipe or cigarette into your lungs<BR>　*<I>He pulled hard on the cigarette.</I><BR>*to take a long drink from a bottle or glass<BR><B>pull away</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>*to start to drive away from a place where you had stopped<BR>　*<I>He waved as he pulled away.</I><BR>*to move ahead of a competitor by going faster or being more successful<BR><B>pull away from</B><BR>　*<I>Nkoku is pulling away from the other runners.</I><BR><B>pull back</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>*to decide not to do or become involved in something<BR><B>pull back from</B><BR>　*<I>In the end, he pulled back from financing the film.</I><BR>*to get out of a bad situation or dangerous place, or to make someone else do this<BR><B>pull back from</B><BR>　*<I>Many banks are pulling back from international markets.</I><BR><B>pull sb⇔back</B><BR>　*<I>They are preparing to pull back their forces.</I><BR>* <B>pull sth⇔back</B><BR><I>BrE</I> if a team that is losing pulls back a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/goal"><U>goal</U></A> or some points, it succeeds in scoring a goal or some points<BR>　*<I>Our play improved and we pulled back two goals.</I><BR><B>pull down</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>* <B>pull sth⇔down</B><BR>to destroy something or make it stop existing<BR>　*<I>My old school was pulled down.</I><BR>* <B>pull down sth</B><BR>to earn a particular amount of money<BR>　*<I>Real estate stocks pulled down total returns of 35.7 percent.</I><BR>* <B>pull sb down</B><BR>to make someone less successful, happy, or healthy<BR>　*<I>Her problems have really pulled her down.</I><BR>* <B>pull down a menu</B><BR>to make a computer program show you a list of the things it can do<BR><B>pull for /</B> [pull for sb/sth] <I>phr v</I><BR><I>informal</I> to encourage a person or team to succeed<BR>　*<I>The crowd were pulling for me to do well.</I><BR><B>pull in</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>*if a driver pulls in, they move to the side of the road and stop<BR>　*<I>She pulled in to let the ambulance pass.</I><BR>*if a train pulls in, it arrives at a station<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/pull%20out"><U>pull out</U></A><BR>* <B>pull sb/sth⇔in</B><BR>to attract business, money, people etc<BR>　*<I>a publicity stunt to pull in the crowds</I><BR>* <B>pull in sth</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>if you pull in a lot of money, you earn it<BR>* <B>pull sb⇔in</B><BR>if a police officer pulls someone in, they take them to a police station because they think that person may have done something wrong<BR><B>pull off</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>* <B>pull sth⇔off</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to succeed in doing something difficult<BR>　*<I>The goalkeeper pulled off six terrific saves.</I><BR>* <B>pull off (sth)</B><BR>to drive a car off a road in order to stop, or to turn into a smaller road<BR>　*<I>We pulled off the road to get some food.</I><BR><B>pull on</B> [pull on sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>to <B>pull at</B> something<BR><B>pull out</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>*<B>a)</B> to drive onto a road from another road or from where you have stopped<BR>　*<I>Don't pull out! There's something coming.</I><BR><B>b)</B> to drive over to a different part of the road in order to get past a vehicle in front of you<BR>　*<I>I pulled out to overtake a bus.</I><BR>*if a train pulls out, it leaves a station<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/pull%20in"><U>pull in</U></A><BR>*to stop doing or being involved in something, or to make someone do this<BR>　*<I>McDermott pulled out with an injury at the last minute.</I><BR><B>pull out of</B><BR>　*<I>They are trying to pull out of the agreement.</I><BR><B>pull sb out of sth</B><BR>　*<I>He threatened to pull his son out of the team.</I><BR>*to get out of a bad situation or dangerous place, or to make someone or something do this<BR>　*<I>Jim saw that the firm was going to be ruined, so he pulled out.</I><BR><B>pull sb/sth⇔out</B><BR>　*<I>Most of the troops have been pulled out.</I><BR><B>pull out of</B><BR>　*<I>when the country was still pulling out of a recession</I><BR>→<B>pull out all the stops</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/stop"><U>stop</U></A> </B><SUP>2 </SUP>(7)<BR><B>pull over</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>to drive to the side of the road and stop your car, or to make someone else do this<BR>　*<I>The policeman signalled to him to pull over.</I><BR><B>pull sb/sth⇔over</B><BR>　*<I>He pulled the car over.</I><BR>　*<I>A cop pulled him over and gave him a speeding ticket.</I><BR><B>pull () through</B> [pull (sb) through] <I>phr v</I><BR>*to stay alive after you have been very ill or badly injured, or to help someone do this<BR>　*<I>His injuries are severe but he's expected to pull through.</I><BR>→<B>bring (sb) through</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bring"><U>bring</U></A></B><BR>*to succeed in doing something very difficult, or to help someone to do this<BR>　*<I>He relied on his experience to pull him through.</I><BR><B>pull together</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>*if a group of people pull together, they all work hard to achieve something<BR>　*<I>If we all pull together, we'll finish on time.</I><BR>* <B>pull yourself together</B><BR>to force yourself to stop behaving in a nervous, frightened, or uncontrolled way<BR>　*<I>With an effort Mary pulled herself together.</I><BR>* <B>pull sth together</B><BR>to improve something by organizing it more effectively<BR>　*<I>We need an experienced manager to pull the department together.</I><BR><B>pull up</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>*to stop the vehicle that you are driving<BR>　*<I>He pulled up in front of the gates.</I><BR>* <B>pull up a chair/stool etc</B><BR>to get a chair, etc and sit down next to someone who is already sitting<BR>* <B>pull sb up</B><BR><I>especially BrE</I> to stop someone who is doing something wrong and tell them you do not approve<BR><B>pull somebody up on</B><BR>　*<I>I felt I had to pull her up on her lateness.</I><BR>→<B>pull sb up short</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/short"><U>short</U></A> </B><SUP>2 </SUP>(7)</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>pull</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">pull<SUP>2</SUP> <I>n</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【act of moving something】</B><BR><B>2【force】</B><BR><B>3【attraction】</B><BR><B>4【influence】</B><BR><B>5【climb】</B><BR><B>6【muscle】</B><BR><B>7【smoke/drink】</B><BR><B>8【handle】</B><BR><B>9【cricket/golf/baseball】</B>
<HR>
*<B>【ACT OF MOVING SOMETHING】</B> [C] <BR>an act of using force to move something towards you or in the same direction that you are moving<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/push"><U>push</U></A><BR>　*<I>He <B>gave</B> her a sharp <B>pull</B> forward.</I><BR>*<B>【FORCE】</B> [C usually singular]<BR>a strong physical force that makes things move in a particular direction<BR>　*<I>the gravitational pull of the moon</I><BR>*<B>【ATTRACTION】</B> [C usually singular]<BR>the ability to attract someone or have a powerful effect on them<BR><B>pull of</B><BR>　*<I>After about a year I gave in to the pull of fatherhood.</I><BR>*<B>【INFLUENCE】</B> [singular,U] <I>informal</I><BR>special influence or power over other people<BR>　*<I>His family's name gives him a lot of pull in this town.</I><BR>*<B>【CLIMB】</B> [singular]<BR><I>BrE</I> a difficult climb up a steep road<BR>　*<I>It was a long pull up the hill.</I><BR>*<B>【MUSCLE】</B> [C usually singular]<BR>an injury to one of your muscles, caused by stretching it too much during exercise<BR>　*<I>a groin pull</I><BR>*<B>【SMOKE/DRINK】</B> [C] <BR>an act of taking the smoke from a cigarette, pipe etc into your <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/lung"><U>lungs</U></A> or of taking a long drink of something<BR><B>pull on/at</B><BR>　*<I>She took a long pull on her cigarette.</I><BR>*<B>【HANDLE】</B> [C] <BR>a rope or handle that you use to pull something<BR>　*<I>He popped the ring pull on another can of lager.</I><BR>*<B>【CRICKET/GOLF/BASEBALL】</B> [C] <BR>a way of hitting the ball in <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cricket"><U>cricket</U></A>, golf, or baseball so that it does not go straight, but moves to one side</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/attract"><U>attract</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/drag"><U>drag</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/draw"><U>draw</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/haul"><U>haul</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/heave"><U>heave</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/influence"><U>influence</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/jerk"><U>jerk</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/lure"><U>lure</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/strain"><U>strain</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/stretch"><U>stretch</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/tow"><U>tow</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/tug"><U>tug</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/yank"><U>yank</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/push"><U>push</U></A></DIV></DIV>
