---
layout: post
title:  "Cross"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">cross<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W2S2</B> /krɔs US krɔːs/ <I>v</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【go from one side to another】</B><BR><B>2【cross a line etc】</B><BR><B>3【two roads/lines etc】</B><BR><B>4【legs/arms/ankles】</B><BR><B>5 cross somebody's mind</B><BR><B>6 cross somebody's face</B><BR><B>7 cross your fingers</B><BR><B>8【breed of plant/animal】</B><BR><B>9 somebody's paths cross</B><BR><B>10 cross that bridge when you come to it</B><BR><B>11 cross my heart (and hope to die)</B><BR><B>12【make somebody angry】</B><BR><B>13【sport】</B><BR><B>14【cheque】</B><BR><B>15【letters】</B><BR><B>16 cross swords (with somebody)</B><BR><B>17 cross yourself</B><BR><B>18 cross somebody's palm with silver</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>cross something⇔off</B><BR>　<B>cross something⇔out</B><BR>　<B>cross over</B>
<HR>
*<B>【GO FROM ONE SIDE TO ANOTHER】</B> [I and T]<BR>to go or stretch from one side of something such as a road, river, room etc to the other<BR><B>cross to</B><BR>　*<I>He crossed to the window.</I><BR><B>cross (over) the road/street/river etc</B><BR>　*<I>It's easy to have an accident just crossing the road.</I><BR>　*<I>He was hit by a car when he tried to cross over the road near Euston station.</I><BR><B>cross the Atlantic/the Channel etc</B><BR>　*<I>the first steamship to cross the Atlantic</I><BR>　*<I>An old bridge crosses the river.</I><BR><B>cross over</B><BR>　*<I>She crossed over to sit beside Dot.</I><BR>*<B>【CROSS A LINE ETC】</B> [T]<BR>if you cross a line, track etc you go over and beyond it<BR>　*<I>He raised his arms in triumph as he crossed the line for his 100-metres win.</I><BR>*<B>【TWO ROADS/LINES ETC】</B> [I and T]<BR>if two or more roads, lines, etc cross, or if one crosses another, they go across each other<BR>　*<I>The by-pass crosses Wilton Lane shortly after a roundabout.</I><BR>*<B>【LEGS/ARMS/ANKLES】</B> [T]<BR>if you cross your legs, arms, or <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/ankle"><U>ankles</U></A>, you put one on top of the other<BR>　*<I>She was sitting on the floor with her legs crossed.</I><BR>* <B>cross sb's mind</B> [usually in negatives] <BR>if you say that an idea, thought etc never crossed your mind, you mean that you did not think of it<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/occur"><U>occur to somebody</U></A><BR>　*<I> <B>It didn't cross</B> her <B>mind that</B> she might be doing something illegal.</I><BR><B>the thought has (never) crossed my mind</B><BR>(=used to tell someone you have thought of the thing they are suggesting, or have never thought of it) <BR>* <B>cross sb's face</B><BR><I>written</I> if an expression crosses someone's face, it appears on their face<BR>　*<I>A look of surprise crossed her face.</I><BR>* <B>cross your fingers</B><BR>used to say that you hope something will happen in the way you want<BR>　*<I>She hung the washing out, then crossed her fingers for a dry day.</I><BR>　*<I>The exam's at two. Will you keep your fingers crossed for me?</I><BR>*<B>【BREED OF PLANT/ANIMAL】</B> [T]<BR>to mix two or more different breeds of animal or plant to form a new breed<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/crossbreed"><U>crossbreed</U></A><BR>　*<I>a flower produced by crossing several different varieties</I><BR><B>cross sth with sth</B><BR>　*<I>These cattle were crossed with horned animals from the highlands.</I><BR>* <B>sb's paths cross</B> <I>also</I> <B>cross paths</B> <BR>if two people's paths cross, or if they cross paths, they meet, usually without expecting it<BR>　*<I>If our paths crossed I usually ignored her.</I><BR>　*<I>We didn't cross paths again until 2001.</I><BR>* <B>cross that bridge when you come to it</B><BR>used to say that you will not think or worry about something until it actually happens<BR>* <B>cross my heart (and hope to die)</B><BR><I>spoken informal</I> used to say that you promise that you will do something, or that what you are saying is true<BR>*<B>【MAKE SOMEBODY ANGRY】</B> [T]<BR>to make someone angry by opposing their plans or orders<BR>　*<I>He hated anyone who crossed him.</I><BR>*<B>【SPORT】</B> [I and T]<BR>to kick, throw, or hit the ball across the playing area in a sport such as football, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/hockey"><U>hockey</U></A> etc<BR>*<B>【CHEQUE】</B> [T]<BR><I>BrE</I> to draw two lines across a cheque to show that it must be paid into the bank account of the person whose name is on it<BR>*<B>【LETTERS】</B> [I]<BR>if two letters about the same subject cross in the post, each was sent before the other was received<BR>* <B>cross swords (with sb)</B><BR>to argue with someone<BR>　*<I>I've crossed swords with him on a number of issues.</I><BR>* <B>cross yourself</B><BR>to move your hand across your upper body in the shape of a cross as a sign of the Christian faith<BR>* <B>cross sb's palm with silver</B><BR><I>especially BrE</I> to give money to someone when you want them to tell your <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fortune"><U>fortune</U></A><BR>→<B>dot the i's and cross the t's</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dot"><U>dot</U></A> </B><SUP>2 </SUP>(4), <B>cross the Rubicon</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/Rubicon"><U>Rubicon</U></A></B><BR><B>cross off</B> [cross sth⇔off] <I>phr v</I><BR>to draw a line through one or more things on a list because you have dealt with them or they are not needed any more<BR>　*<I>Whenever I buy something, I cross it off the list.</I><BR><B>cross out</B> [cross sth⇔out] <I>phr v</I><BR>to draw a line or lines through something you have written or drawn, usually because it is wrong<BR>　*<I>I crossed out 'Miss' and wrote 'Ms'.</I><BR><B>cross over</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>*if an entertainer crosses over from one area of entertainment to another, they become successful in the second one as well as the first<BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/crossover"><U>crossover</U></A></B><BR>* <I>BrE old use</I> to die</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>cross</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">cross<SUP>2</SUP> <B>W3S3</B> <I>n</I> [C] 
<HR>
<B>1【mixture of things】</B><BR><B>2【mark on paper】</B><BR><B>3【Christian sign】</B><BR><B>4【punishment】</B><BR><B>5【military award】</B><BR><B>6【sport】</B><BR><B>7【problem】</B>
<HR>
[Date: 900-1000; Language: Old Norse; Origin: kross, from an unrecorded <I>Old Irish</I> cross, from <I>Latin</I> crux]<BR>*<B>【MIXTURE OF THINGS】</B><BR>a mixture of two things, breeds, or qualities<BR><B>cross between</B><BR>　*<I>The tour manager's role is a cross between hostess and courier.</I><BR>　*<I>Their dog is a cross between two well-known breeds.</I><BR>*<B>【MARK ON PAPER】</B><BR><I>especially BrE</I> <B>a)</B> a mark (x or +) used on paper, to represent where something is, or where something should be<BR>　*<I>I've <B>put</B> a <B>cross</B> on the map to mark where our street is.</I><BR>　*<I>Please sign your name by the cross.</I><BR><B>b)</B> a mark (x) used on paper to show that something that has been written or printed is not correct<BR>　*<I>My homework got a lot more ticks than crosses.</I><BR><B>c)</B> a mark (x or +) used by someone who cannot write, in order to sign their name<BR><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/spire"><U>spire</U></A>, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cross"><U>cross</U></A><BR>*<B>【CHRISTIAN SIGN】</B><BR><B>a) the cross</B><BR>the cross that Jesus Christ died on<BR>　*<I>Christians believe that Jesus died on the cross for our sins.</I><BR><B>b)</B> an object, picture, or mark in the shape of a cross, used as a sign of the Christian faith or for decoration<BR>　*<I>Pauline wore a tiny gold cross.</I><BR>*<B>【PUNISHMENT】</B><BR>an upright post of wood with another crossing it near the top, that people in the past were fastened to with nails and left to die on as a punishment<BR>*<B>【MILITARY AWARD】</B><BR>a decoration in the shape of a cross that is given to someone as an honour, especially for military courage<BR>　*<I>He was awarded the George Cross.</I><BR>*<B>【SPORT】</B><BR><B>a)</B> a kick or hit of the ball in a sport such as football, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/hockey"><U>hockey</U></A> etc, that goes across the field<BR><B>b)</B> a way of hitting someone in the sport of <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/boxing"><U>boxing</U></A>, in which your arm goes over theirs as they try to hit you<BR>　*<I>He caught his opponent with a <B>right cross</B> to the chin.</I><BR>*<B>【PROBLEM】</B><BR>if you describe something as the cross that someone has to bear, you mean it is a problem that makes them very unhappy or worried, and that continues for a long time<BR>　*<I>I feel sorry for you, but we all <B>have</B> our <B>crosses to bear</B> .</I><BR>→<B>the sign of the Cross</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/sign"><U>sign</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(10)</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>cross</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">3</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">cross<SUP>3</SUP> <B>S2</B> <I>adj</I> [usually before noun] <I>especially BrE</I> <BR>angry or annoyed<BR><B>get/be cross (with sb)</B><BR>　*<I>She gets cross when he goes out drinking.</I><BR>　*<I>Sometimes I get very cross with the children.</I><BR><B>cross at/about</B><BR>　*<I>She was cross at being interrupted.</I><BR><B>&gt;crossly</B> <I>adv</I></DIV></DIV>
<DIV style="BORDER-TOP: #c7d4dc 1px solid; PADDING-BOTTOM: 0px; PADDING-TOP: 5px; PADDING-LEFT: 0px; PADDING-RIGHT: 0px"></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 5px 0px">
<DIV style="WIDTH: 100%">
<DIV style="FLOAT: left; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"></DIV>
<DIV style="WIDTH: 100%; OVERFLOW-X: hidden">
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>cross-</B></SPAN> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">cross- /krɔs US krɔːs/ <I>prefix</I> <BR>*going from one side to the other<BR>　*<I>a cross-Channel ferry (=sailing from Britain to France)</I> <BR>*going between two things and joining them<BR>　*<I>cross-cultural influences</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/churlish"><U>churlish</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cranky"><U>cranky</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/go%20against"><U>go against</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/interbreed"><U>interbreed</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/irritable"><U>irritable</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/mate"><U>mate</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/oppose"><U>oppose</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/pass"><U>pass</U></A></DIV></DIV>
