---
layout: post
title:  "Rich"
categories: office
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">rich<BR><B>W2S2</B> /rɪtʃ/ <I>adj comparative</I> <B>richer</B> <I>superlative</I> <B>richest</B> 
<HR>
<B>1【wealthy】</B><BR><B>2【large amount】</B><BR><B>3【full of interest】</B><BR><B>4【food】</B><BR><B>5【smell/flavour】</B><BR><B>6【colour】</B><BR><B>7【sound】</B><BR><B>8【soil】</B><BR><B>9【cloth】</B><BR><B>10 that's rich (coming from him/you etc)</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English; Origin: rice]<BR>*<B>【WEALTHY】</B><BR><B>a)</B> someone who is rich has a lot of money and valuable possessions<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/poor"><U>poor</U></A><BR>　*<I>one of the richest women in America</I><BR>　*<I>She found herself a rich husband.</I><BR>　*<I>He thought this was the easiest way to <B>get rich</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>the rich nations of the world</I><BR><B>fabulously rich</B> <I>BrE</I><BR>　*<I>She was both beautiful and fabulously rich.</I><BR>　*<I>His brother's <B>stinking rich</B> (=very rich, in a way that you do not approve of) .</I><BR><B>b) the rich</B> [plural]<BR>people who are rich<BR>　*<I>houses belonging to the rich and famous</I><BR>*<B>【LARGE AMOUNT】</B><BR>containing a lot of something<BR><B>rich in</B><BR>　*<I>Citrus fruits are rich in vitamin C.</I><BR><B>oxygen-rich/nutrient-rich/protein-rich etc</B><BR>　*<I>Pregnant women should eat protein-rich foods.</I><BR>　*<I>Rich mineral deposits have been found in the sea bed.</I><BR>　*<I>Red meat is a <B>rich source</B> of iron.</I><BR>*<B>【FULL OF INTEREST】</B><BR>full of interesting or important facts, events, or ideas<BR>　*<I>the rich literary tradition of England</I><BR>　*<I>The area has a very rich history.</I><BR><B>rich in</B><BR>　*<I>a story that was rich in detail</I><BR>*<B>【FOOD】</B><BR>rich food contains a lot of butter, cream, or eggs, which make you feel full very quickly<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/light"><U>light</U></A><BR>　*<I>a rich fruit cake</I><BR>　*<I>The sauce was very rich.</I><BR>*<B>【SMELL/FLAVOUR】</B><BR>a rich smell or flavour is strong and pleasant<BR>　*<I>the rich scent of the pine trees</I><BR>　*<I>meat with a wonderfully rich flavour</I><BR>　*<I>a rich, fruity wine</I><BR>*<B>【COLOUR】</B><BR>a rich colour is strong and attractive<BR>　*<I>a rich dark brown colour</I><BR>*<B>【SOUND】</B><BR>a rich sound is low and pleasant<BR>　*<I>the rich tone of a cello</I><BR>　*<I>He laughed with a rich, throaty chuckle.</I><BR>*<B>【SOIL】</B><BR>rich soil is good for growing plants in<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/poor"><U>poor</U></A><BR>　*<I>Vegetables grow well in the rich, black soil.</I><BR>*<B>【CLOTH】</B><BR>rich cloth is expensive and beautiful<BR>　*<I>She stroked the rich velvet of the dress enviously.</I><BR>* <B>that's rich (coming from him/you etc)</B><BR><I>BrE spoken</I> used to say that what someone has said is unreasonable and that they are criticizing you for doing something that they do themselves<BR>　*<I>He accused me of being dishonest, which was a bit rich coming from him.</I>
<HR>
<B>WORD CHOICE: rich, well-off, wealthy, affluent, prosperous</B> <BR><B>Rich</B> is a very direct way of saying that someone has a lot of money and possessions : <I>one of the richest women in America </I><BR><B>Well-off</B> means fairly rich, so you can buy most things. People are more likely to describe themselves as 'well-off' than 'rich' : <I>My parents were pretty well-off.</I> <BR><B>Wealthy</B> is a slightly more formal word meaning rich, especially over a long period of time : <I>He came from a wealthy family.</I> <BR><B>Affluent</B> and <B>prosperous</B> are fairly formal words, often used to describe societies where the economy is successful and the standard of living is good. <BR><B>Affluent</B> means rich enough to have things like expensive cars and holidays : <I>People are becoming increasingly affluent.</I> <BR><B>Prosperous</B> means rich and successful : <I>the more prosperous regions of the country</I> 
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/abounding"><U>abounding</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/affluent"><U>affluent</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/comfortable"><U>comfortable</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/costly"><U>costly</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/elegant"><U>elegant</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/expensive"><U>expensive</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fertile"><U>fertile</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/flavorful"><U>flavorful</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/opulent"><U>opulent</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/priceless"><U>priceless</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/productive"><U>productive</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/prolific"><U>prolific</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/prosperous"><U>prosperous</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/valuable"><U>valuable</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/wealthy"><U>wealthy</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/well-to-do"><U>well-to-do</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/poor"><U>poor</U></A></DIV></DIV>
