---
layout: post
title:  "Toss"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">toss<SUP>1</SUP> /tɔs US tɔːs/ <I>v</I> <BR>[Date: 1500-1600; Origin: Probably from a <I>Scandinavian</I> language]<BR>* [T] <BR>to throw something, especially something light, with a quick gentle movement of your hand<BR><B>toss sth into/onto etc sth</B><BR>　*<I>She crumpled the letter and tossed it into the fire.</I><BR><B>toss sth aside/over etc</B><BR>　*<I>Toss that book over, will you?</I><BR><B>toss sth to sb</B><BR>　*<I>'Catch!' said Sandra, tossing her bag to him.</I><BR><B>toss sb sth</B><BR>　*<I>Frank tossed her the newspaper.</I><BR>* [I and T] <BR>to move about continuously in a violent or uncontrolled way, or to make something do this<BR><B>toss sth around/about</B><BR>　*<I>The small boat was tossed about like a cork.</I><BR>* <B>toss and turn</B><BR>to keep changing your position in bed because you cannot sleep<BR>　*<I>I've been tossing and turning all night.</I><BR>* <I>also</I> <B>toss up</B> [I and T]<BR><I>especially BrE</I> to throw a coin in the air, so that a decision will be made according to the side that faces upwards when it comes down<BR>American Equivalent: <B>flip</B><BR>　*<I>They <B>tossed</B> a <B>coin</B> to decide who would go first.</I><BR><B>toss (sb) for it</B><BR>　*<I>We couldn't make up our minds, so we decided to toss for it.</I><BR>* [T] <BR>to throw something up into the air and let it fall to the ground<BR>　*<I>The crowd cheered, banging pots and tossing confetti into the air.</I><BR>* <B>toss a pancake</B><BR><I>BrE</I> to throw a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/pancake"><U>pancake</U></A> upwards so that it turns over in the air and lands on the side that you want to cook<BR>American Equivalent: <B>flip</B><BR>* [T] <BR>to move pieces of food about in a small amount of liquid so that they become covered with the liquid<BR>　*<I>Toss the carrots in some butter before serving.</I><BR>* <B>toss your head/hair</B><BR><I>written</I> to move your head or hair back suddenly, often with a shaking movement showing anger<BR>　*<I>He tossed his head angrily and left the room.</I><BR><B>toss off</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>* <B>toss sth⇔off</B><BR>to produce something quickly and without much effort<BR>　*<I>one of those painters who can toss off a couple of pictures before breakfast</I><BR>* <B>toss sth⇔off</B><BR><I>written</I> to drink something quickly<BR>　*<I>He tossed off a few whiskies.</I><BR>* <B>toss (sb) off</B><BR><I>BrE informal not polite</I> to <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/masturbate"><U>masturbate</U></A><BR><B>toss out</B> [toss sth/sb⇔out] <I>phr v</I><BR>*to get rid of something that you do not want<BR>　*<I>I tossed most of that stuff out when we moved.</I><BR>*to make someone leave a place, especially because of bad behaviour<BR><B>toss something/somebody⇔out of</B><BR>　*<I>Kurt was tossed out of the club for trying to start a fight.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>toss</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">toss<SUP>2</SUP> <I>n</I> [C] <BR>*the act of throwing a coin in the air to decide something, especially who will do something first in a game<BR>　*<I> <B>The toss of a coin</B> decided who would go first.</I><BR><B>win/lose the toss</B><BR>　*<I>Malory won the toss and will serve.</I><BR>*a sudden backwards movement of your head, so that your hair moves, often showing anger<BR>　*<I>'I'll see,' the nurse said, with an officious <B>toss of</B> her <B>head</B> .</I><BR>*a gentle throw<BR>* <B>not give a toss</B><BR><I>BrE spoken</I> to not care about something at all<BR>　*<I>I really couldn't give a toss what Sam thinks.</I><BR>→<B>argue the toss</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/argue"><U>argue</U></A></B></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cast"><U>cast</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/chuck"><U>chuck</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fling"><U>fling</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/flip"><U>flip</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/heave"><U>heave</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/hurl"><U>hurl</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/pitch"><U>pitch</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/sling"><U>sling</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/throw"><U>throw</U></A></DIV></DIV>
