---
layout: post
title:  "Leap"
categories: animal
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">leap<SUP>1</SUP> /liːp/ <I>v past tense and past participle</I> <B>leapt</B> /lept/ <I>especially BrE</I> <B>leaped</B> <I>especially AmE</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【jump】</B><BR><B>2【move fast】</B><BR><B>3【increase】</B><BR><B>4 leap at the chance/opportunity</B><BR><B>5 leap to somebody's defence</B><BR><B>6【heart】</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>leap out at somebody</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English; Origin: hleapan]<BR>*<B>【JUMP】</B><BR><B>a)</B> [I always + adverb/preposition] <BR>to jump high into the air or to jump in order to land in a different place<BR>　*<I>She leapt over the fence.</I><BR>　*<I>The smaller animals can easily leap from tree to tree.</I><BR><B>b)</B> [T] <I>literary</I> <BR>to jump over something<BR>　*<I>Brenda leaped the gate and ran across the field.</I><BR>*<B>【MOVE FAST】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to move very quickly and with a lot of energy<BR>　*<I>I leapt up the stairs three at a time.</I><BR>　*<I>He leapt out of bed.</I><BR>　*<I>She <B>leapt to</B> her <B>feet</B> (=stood up quickly) and started shouting.</I><BR>*<B>【INCREASE】</B> [I]<BR>to increase quickly and by a large amount<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/tumble"><U>tumble</U></A> <B>leap to</B><BR>　*<I>Profits leapt to £376m.</I><BR>　*<I>He leapt 27 places to second spot.</I><BR>* <B>leap at the chance/opportunity</B><BR>to accept an opportunity very eagerly<BR>　*<I>I leapt at the chance of studying art in Paris.</I><BR>* <B>leap to sb's defence</B><BR><I>BrE</I> <B>leap to somebody's defense</B> <I>AmE</I> <BR>to quickly defend someone<BR>　*<I>When her younger brother was being bullied she leapt to his defence.</I><BR>*<B>【HEART】</B> [I]<BR><I>literary</I> if your heart leaps, you feel a sudden surprise, happiness, or excitement<BR>　*<I>My heart leaped when I saw Paul at the airport.</I><BR>→<B>look before you leap</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/look"><U>look</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(12)<BR><B>leap out at</B> [leap out at sb] <I>phr v</I><BR>if a word or phrase in a piece of writing leaps out at you, you notice it particularly, because it is interesting, important etc<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/jump%20out%20at"><U>jump out at</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>leap</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">leap<SUP>2</SUP> <I>n</I> [C] <BR>*a big jump<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bound"><U>bound</U></A><BR>　*<I>He threw a stick into the river and the dog went after it in a <B>flying leap</B> .</I><BR>*a large increase or change<BR><B>quantum/great/huge etc leap</B><BR>　*<I>a quantum leap (=very great increase or change) in population levels</I><BR><B>leap in</B><BR>　*<I>a 16% leap in pre-tax profits</I><BR><B>leap forward</B><BR>　*<I>the huge leap forward that took place in the 1980s</I><BR>* <B>by/in leaps and bounds</B><BR>if something increases, develops, grows etc by leaps and bounds, it does it very quickly<BR>　*<I>Lifeboat technology has advanced by leaps and bounds.</I><BR>* <B>a leap of (the) imagination</B> <I>also</I> <B>an imaginative leap</B> <BR>a mental process that is needed to understand something difficult or see the connection between two very different ideas<BR>* <B>leap in the dark</B><BR>something you do without knowing what will happen as a result<BR>* <B>leap of faith</B><BR>something you do even though it involves a risk, hoping that it will have a good result</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bound"><U>bound</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dive"><U>dive</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/hop"><U>hop</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/hurdle"><U>hurdle</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/jump"><U>jump</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/plunge"><U>plunge</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/pounce"><U>pounce</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/spring"><U>spring</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/vault"><U>vault</U></A></DIV></DIV>
