---
layout: post
title:  "Creep"
categories: school
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">creep<SUP>1</SUP> /kriːp/ <I>v past tense and past participle</I> <B>crept</B> /krept/<BR>[I always + adverb/preposition] <BR>[Language: Old English; Origin: creopan]<BR>*to move in a quiet, careful way, especially to avoid attracting attention<BR><B>creep into/over/around etc</B><BR>　*<I>Johann would creep into the gallery to listen to the singers.</I><BR>　*<I>He crept back up the stairs, trying to avoid the ones that creaked.</I><BR>*if something such as an insect, small animal, or car creeps, it moves slowly and quietly<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/crawl"><U>crawl</U></A> <B>creep down/along/away etc</B><BR>　*<I>a caterpillar creeping down my arm</I><BR>*to gradually enter something and change it<BR><B>creep in/into/over etc</B><BR>　*<I>Funny how religion is creeping into the environmental debate.</I><BR>*if a plant creeps, it grows or climbs up or along a particular place<BR><B>creep up/over/around etc</B><BR>　*<I>ivy creeping up the walls of the building</I><BR>*if mist, clouds etc creep, they gradually fill or cover a place<BR><B>creep into/over etc</B><BR>　*<I>Fog was creeping into the valley.</I><BR>* <I>BrE informal</I> to be insincerely nice to someone, especially someone in authority, in order to gain an advantage for yourself<BR><B>creep (up) to sb</B><BR>　*<I>I'm not the kind of person to creep to anybody.</I><BR>* <B>sb/sth makes my flesh creep</B><BR>used to say that someone or something makes you feel strong dislike or fear<BR>　*<I>His glassy stare made my flesh creep.</I><BR><B>creep up on /</B> [creep up on sb/sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>*to surprise someone by walking up behind them silently<BR>　*<I>Don't yell - let's creep up on them and scare them.</I><BR>*if a feeling or idea creeps up on you, it gradually increases<BR>　*<I>The feeling she had for Malcolm had crept up on her and taken her by surprise.</I><BR>*to seem to come sooner than you expect<BR>　*<I>Somehow, the end of term had crept up on us.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>creep</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">creep<SUP>2</SUP> <I>n</I> [C] <BR>* <I>informal especially AmE</I> someone who you dislike extremely<BR>　*<I>Get lost, you little creep!</I><BR>* <I>BrE informal</I> someone who tries to make you like them or do things for them by being insincerely nice to you<BR>　*<I>Don't try and flatter her - she doesn't approve of creeps.</I><BR>* <B>give sb the creeps</B><BR>if a person or place gives you the creeps, they make you feel nervous and a little frightened, especially because they are strange<BR>　*<I>That house gives me the creeps.</I><BR>* <B>mission/cost/grade etc creep</B><BR>when something gradually starts to go beyond what it was intended to deal with or include<BR>　*<I>He denied that giving civilian tasks to the NATO forces was a case of mission creep.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cower"><U>cower</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/crawl"><U>crawl</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/crawling"><U>crawling</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/creeping"><U>creeping</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cringe"><U>cringe</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fawn"><U>fawn</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/grovel"><U>grovel</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/grow%20over"><U>grow over</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/mouse"><U>mouse</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/pussyfoot"><U>pussyfoot</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/sneak"><U>sneak</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/spook"><U>spook</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/weirdie"><U>weirdie</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/weirdo"><U>weirdo</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/weirdy"><U>weirdy</U></A></DIV></DIV>
