---
layout: post
title:  "Brace"
categories: school
tag: fail
img: https://ae01.alicdn.com/kf/HTB1bNeACL9TBuNjy0Fcq6zeiFXa6/5pcs-Double-side-boxing-tooth-Sanda-mouthguard-wear-braces-football-tooth-Boxing-Gum-Shield-Gear-Sporting.jpg
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">brace<SUP>1</SUP> /breɪs/ <I>v</I> <BR>* [T] <BR>to mentally or physically prepare yourself or someone else for something unpleasant that is going to happen<BR><B>brace yourself (for sth)</B><BR>　*<I>Nancy braced herself for the inevitable arguments.</I><BR>　*<I>You had better brace yourself - I have some bad news.</I><BR>　*<I>The military needs to brace itself for further spending cuts, says McCoy.</I><BR><B>brace yourself to do sth</B><BR>　*<I>Cathy braced herself to see Matthew, who she expected to arrive at any minute.</I><BR><B>be braced for sth</B><BR>　*<I>The base was braced for an attack.</I><BR>* [T] <BR>to push part of your body against something solid in order to make yourself more steady<BR><B>brace sth against sth</B><BR>　*<I>Gina braced her back against the wall and pushed as hard as she could.</I><BR><B>brace yourself (for sth)</B><BR>　*<I>Before he could brace himself she'd shoved him out of the door.</I><BR>　*<I>The pilot told passengers and crew to brace themselves for a rough landing.</I><BR>* [T] <BR>to make something stronger by supporting it<BR>　*<I>Wait until we've braced the ladder.</I><BR>　*<I>Workers used steel beams to brace the roof.</I><BR>* [I and T] <BR>to make your body or part of your body stiff in order to prepare to do something difficult</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>brace</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">brace<SUP>2</SUP> <I>n</I> <BR>[Date: 1300-1400; Language: Old French; Origin: <I>'two arms'</I>, from <I>Latin</I> bracchia, from bracchium <I>'arm'</I>]<BR>* [C] <BR>something that is used to strengthen or support something, or to make it stiff<BR>　*<I>The miners used special braces to keep the walls from collapsing.</I><BR><B>neck/back/knee brace</B><BR>(=a brace which supports the neck etc)<BR>　*<I>He was being fitted for a back brace.</I><BR>　*<I>She had to <B>wear</B> a <B>brace</B> after the accident.</I><BR>* [C] <I>also</I> <B>braces</B> <I>AmE</I> <BR>a system of metal wires that people, usually children, wear on their teeth to make them grow straight<BR>* [C usually plural] <I>AmE</I> <BR>a metal support that someone with weak legs wears to help them walk<BR>British Equivalent: <B>callipers</B><BR>* <B>braces</B> [plural] <I>BrE</I> <BR>two long pieces of material that stretch over someone's shoulders and fasten to their trousers at the front and the back to stop them falling down<BR>American Equivalent: <B>suspenders</B><BR>* [C] <BR>one of a pair of signs { } used to show that information written between them should be considered together<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bracket"><U>bracket</U></A><BR>* <B>a brace of sth</B><BR><I>especially BrE</I> two things of the same type, especially two birds or animals that have been killed for food or sport<BR>　*<I>a brace of partridge</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/prop"><U>prop</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/strengthen"><U>strengthen</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/support"><U>support</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/tie"><U>tie</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/tighten"><U>tighten</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/loosen"><U>loosen</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/relax"><U>relax</U></A></DIV></DIV>
