---
layout: post
title:  "Bright"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">bright<BR><B>W2S2</B> /braɪt/ <I>adj comparative</I> <B>brighter</B> <I>superlative</I> <B>brightest</B> 
<HR>
<B>1【light】</B><BR><B>2【sunny】</B><BR><B>3【intelligent】</B><BR><B>4【colours】</B><BR><B>5【cheerful】</B><BR><B>6【successful】</B><BR><B>7 as bright as a button</B><BR><B>8 look on the bright side</B><BR><B>9 bright and early</B><BR><B>10 bright spark</B><BR><B>11 bright and breezy</B><BR><B>12 bright-eyed and bushy-tailed</B><BR><B>13 the bright lights</B><BR><B>14 bright spot</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English; Origin: beorht]<BR>*<B>【LIGHT】</B><BR>shining strongly, or with plenty of light<BR>　*<I>Her eyes were hurting from the bright lights.</I><BR>　*<I>The buildings looked lovely in the bright sunshine.</I><BR>　*<I>a large bright room</I><BR>*<B>【SUNNY】</B><BR>if the weather is bright, the sun is shining and there is a lot of light<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dull"><U>dull</U></A><BR>　*<I>The weather was bright and sunny.</I><BR>　*<I>a bright autumn day</I><BR>*<B>【INTELLIGENT】</B><BR>intelligent and able to learn things quickly<BR>　*<I>He was an exceptionally bright child.</I><BR>　*<I>a bright ambitious young man</I><BR>　*<I>He is constantly coming up with <B>bright ideas</B> for making money.</I><BR>*<B>【COLOURS】</B><BR>bright colours are strong and easy to see<BR>　*<I>a bright red jumper</I><BR>　*<I>I never wear bright colours.</I><BR>*<B>【CHEERFUL】</B><BR>happy and full of energy<BR>　*<I>Her voice was bright and cheerful.</I><BR>　*<I>She gave him a bright smile.</I><BR>　*<I>He looked up at me with bright eyes.</I><BR>*<B>【SUCCESSFUL】</B><BR>if the future looks bright, you think that something will be successful<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/promising"><U>promising</U></A><BR>　*<I>The school's future now looks very bright.</I><BR>　*<I>I'm sure the company <B>has a bright future</B> now.</I><BR>* <B>as bright as a button</B><BR>very intelligent and full of energy<BR>* <B>look on the bright side</B><BR>to see the good points in a situation that seems to be bad<BR>　*<I>Come on, try to look on the bright side.</I><BR>* <B>bright and early</B><BR>very early in the morning<BR>　*<I>He was up bright and early, keen to get started.</I><BR>* <B>bright spark</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>someone who says or does something that they think is intelligent but is really wrong or stupid<BR>　*<I>Some bright spark thought the building was on fire and called the fire brigade.</I><BR>* <B>bright and breezy</B><BR>happy and confident<BR>* <B>bright-eyed and bushy-tailed</B><BR>happy and full of energy<BR>* <B>the bright lights</B><BR>the interesting exciting life in a big city<BR>　*<I>She missed the bright lights of London.</I><BR>* <B>bright spot</B><BR>an event or a period of time that is more pleasant when everything else is unpleasant<BR>　*<I>The only bright spot of the weekend was our trip to the theatre.</I><BR><B>&gt;brightly</B> <I>adv</I><BR>　*<I>The sun shone brightly.</I><BR>　*<I>brightly-coloured clothes</I><BR>　*<I>She smiled brightly.</I><BR><B>&gt;brightness</B> <I>n</I> [U]</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/alert"><U>alert</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cheerful"><U>cheerful</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/clear"><U>clear</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/intelligent"><U>intelligent</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/lively"><U>lively</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/pleasant"><U>pleasant</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/shining"><U>shining</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/smart"><U>smart</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/vivid"><U>vivid</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dark"><U>dark</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dull"><U>dull</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/gloomy"><U>gloomy</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/stupid"><U>stupid</U></A></DIV></DIV>
