---
layout: post
title:  "Bundle"
categories: school
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">bun<B>·</B>dle<SUP>1</SUP> /ˈbʌndl/ <I>n</I> [C] <BR>[Date: 1300-1400; Language: Middle Dutch; Origin: bundel]<BR>*a group of things such as papers, clothes, or sticks that are fastened or tied together<BR><B>bundle of</B><BR>　*<I>bundles of newspapers</I><BR>　*<I>a small bundle containing mostly clothing</I><BR>*a number of things that belong or are dealt with together<BR><B>bundle of</B><BR>　*<I>bundles of data</I><BR>*computer software and sometimes other equipment or services that are included with a new computer at no extra cost<BR>* <B>a bundle</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>a lot of money<BR>　*<I>College evening classes cost a bundle.</I><BR>　*<I>A company can <B>make a bundle</B> by selling unwanted property.</I><BR>* <B>be a bundle of nerves</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to be very nervous<BR>* <B>be a bundle of laughs/fun</B><BR><I>BrE informal</I> an expression meaning a person or situation that is fun or makes you laugh, often used jokingly when they are not fun at all<BR>　*<I>Being a teenager isn't a bundle of laughs.</I><BR>* <B>not go a bundle on sth/sb</B><BR><I>BrE informal</I> to not like something or someone very much<BR>　*<I>Jim never drank, and certainly didn't go a bundle on gambling.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>bundle</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">bundle<SUP>2</SUP> <I>v</I> <BR>* [T always + adverb/preposition] <BR>to quickly push someone or something somewhere because you are in a hurry or you want to hide them<BR><B>bundle sb into/through etc sth</B><BR>　*<I>They bundled Perez into the car and drove off.</I><BR>* [I always + adverb/preposition] <I>BrE</I> <BR>to move somewhere quickly in a group<BR><B>bundle into/through etc</B><BR>　*<I>Six of us bundled into a taxi.</I><BR>* [T] <BR>to include computer software or other services with a new computer at no extra cost<BR><B>bundle sth with/into sth</B><BR>　*<I>Microsoft can bundle Windows NT at discounted prices with its popular desktop application programs.</I><BR><B>bundle sth together</B><BR>　*<I>The company offered customers a single computer solution, bundling together hardware and software.</I><BR><B>bundle off</B> [bundle sb⇔off] <I>phr v</I><BR>to send someone somewhere quickly without asking them if they want to go<BR><B>bundle up</B> [bundle sb/sth⇔up] <I>phr v</I><BR>* <I>also</I> <B>bundle sth⇔together</B> <BR>to make a bundle by tying things together<BR>　*<I>Bundle up the newspapers and take them to the skip.</I><BR>* <I>also</I> <B>bundle sth⇔together</B> <BR>to put different things together so that they are dealt with at the same time<BR>　*<I>The lawsuit bundles together the claims of many individuals into one big case.</I><BR>*to put warm clothes on someone or yourself because it is cold<BR>　*<I>People sat bundled up in scarves, coats, and boots.</I><BR><B>bundle somebody/something⇔up against</B><BR>　*<I>spectators bundled up against the cold</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bale"><U>bale</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/package"><U>package</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/packet"><U>packet</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/parcel"><U>parcel</U></A></DIV></DIV>
