---
layout: post
title:  "Stroke"
categories: school
tag: fail
word_excerpt: He lifted her face and stroked her hair from her eyes.
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">stroke<SUP>1</SUP> <B>S3</B> /strəuk US strouk/ <I>n</I> [C] 
<HR>
<B>1【illness】</B><BR><B>2【swimming/rowing】</B><BR><B>3【sport】</B><BR><B>4【pen/brush】</B><BR><B>5 at a/one stroke</B><BR><B>6 on the stroke of seven/nine etc</B><BR><B>7 stroke of luck/fortune</B><BR><B>8 stroke of genius/inspiration etc</B><BR><B>9【hit】</B><BR><B>10【a movement of your hand】</B><BR><B>11 with/at a stroke of the pen</B><BR><B>12 not do a stroke (of work)</B><BR><B>13 stroke of lightning</B><BR><B>14【clock/bell】</B><BR><B>15 put somebody off their stroke</B><BR><B>16【in numbers】</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1200-1300; Origin: Probably from an unrecorded <I>Old English</I> strac]<BR>*<B>【ILLNESS】</B><BR>if someone has a stroke, an <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/artery"><U>artery</U></A> (=tube carrying blood) in their brain suddenly bursts or becomes blocked, so that they may die or be unable to use some muscles<BR>　*<I>She died following a massive stroke.</I><BR><B>have/suffer a stroke</B><BR>　*<I>I looked after my father after he had a stroke.</I><BR>　*<I>a stroke patient</I><BR>*<B>【SWIMMING/ROWING】</B><BR><B>a)</B> one of a set of movements in swimming or rowing in which you move your arms or the <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/oar"><U>oar</U></A> forward and then back<BR>　*<I>She swam with strong steady strokes.</I><BR><B>b)</B> a style of swimming or rowing<BR>　*<I>the breast stroke</I><BR>*<B>【SPORT】</B><BR>the action of hitting the ball in games such as tennis, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/golf"><U>golf</U></A>, and <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cricket"><U>cricket</U></A><BR>　*<I>a backhand stroke</I><BR>*<B>【PEN/BRUSH】</B><BR><B>a)</B> a single movement of a pen or brush when you are writing or painting<BR>　*<I>A few strokes of her pen brought out his features clearly.</I><BR><B>b)</B> a line made by a pen or brush<BR>　*<I>the thick downward strokes of the characters</I><BR>* <B>at a/one stroke</B><BR>with a single sudden action<BR>　*<I>At one stroke the country lost two outstanding leaders.</I><BR>* <B>on the stroke of seven/nine etc</B><BR>at exactly seven o'clock etc<BR>　*<I>She arrived home on the stroke of midnight.</I><BR>　*<I>The only goal of the match came on the stroke of half-time.</I><BR>* <B>stroke of luck/fortune</B><BR>something lucky that happens to you unexpectedly<BR>　*<I>In a stroke of luck, a suitable organ donor became available.</I><BR>* <B>stroke of genius/inspiration etc</B><BR>a very good idea about what to do to solve a problem<BR>　*<I>It was a stroke of genius to film the movie in Toronto.</I><BR>*<B>【HIT】</B><BR>an action of hitting someone with something such as a whip or thin stick<BR>　*<I>He cried out at each stroke of the whip.</I><BR>*<B>【A MOVEMENT OF YOUR HAND】</B><BR>a gentle movement of your hand over something<BR>　*<I>I <B>gave</B> her hair a gentle <B>stroke</B> .</I><BR>* <B>with/at a stroke of the pen</B><BR>if someone in authority does something with a stroke of the pen, they sign an official document to make a decision with important and serious results<BR>　*<I>He had the power to order troops home with a stroke of his pen.</I><BR>* <B>not do a stroke (of work)</B><BR><I>BrE informal</I> to not do any work at all<BR>* <B>stroke of lightning</B><BR>a bright flash of lightning, especially one that hits something<BR>*<B>【CLOCK/BELL】</B><BR>a single sound made by a clock giving the hours, or by a bell, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/gong"><U>gong</U></A> etc<BR>* <B>put sb off their stroke</B><BR><I>BrE informal</I> to make someone stop giving all their attention to what they are doing<BR>　*<I>Seeing Frank watching me put me off my stroke.</I><BR>*<B>【IN NUMBERS】</B><BR><I>BrE</I> used when you are saying a number written with the mark (/) in it<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/slash"><U>slash</U></A><BR>　*<I>The serial number is seventeen stroke one. (=17/1)</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>stroke</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">stroke<SUP>2</SUP> <I>v</I> [T] <BR><BR>[<B>Sense: 1-2,4</B>; Origin: <I>Old English</I> stracian]<BR>[<B>Sense: 3</B>; Date: 1900-2000; Origin: <B>STROKE<SUP>1</SUP></B>]<BR>*to move your hand gently over something<BR>　*<I>He reached out and stroked her cheek tenderly.</I><BR>* [always + adverb/preposition] <BR>to move something somewhere with gentle movements of your hand<BR>　*<I>He lifted her face and stroked her hair from her eyes.</I><BR>* [always + adverb/preposition] <BR>to hit or kick a ball with a smooth movement in games such as tennis, golf, and <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cricket"><U>cricket</U></A><BR>　*<I>He stroked the ball into an empty net with a minute to go.</I><BR>* <B>stroke sb's ego</B><BR>to say nice things to someone to make them feel good, especially because you want something from them</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/act"><U>act</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/attack"><U>attack</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/attempt"><U>attempt</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/caress"><U>caress</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/convulsion"><U>convulsion</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/deed"><U>deed</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/effort"><U>effort</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/feat"><U>feat</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/massage"><U>massage</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/pet"><U>pet</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rub"><U>rub</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/seizure"><U>seizure</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/spasm"><U>spasm</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/undertaking"><U>undertaking</U></A></DIV></DIV>
