---
layout: post
title:  "Clean"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">clean<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W2</B> /kliːn/</FONT> <I>adj comparative</I> <B>cleaner</B> <I>superlative</I> <B>cleanest</B>
<HR>
<B>1【not dirty】</B><BR><B>2【people/animals】</B><BR><B>3【environment】</B><BR><B>4【fair or legal】</B><BR><B>5【not offensive】</B><BR><B>6 come clean</B><BR><B>7 make a clean breast of it</B><BR><B>8 a clean break</B><BR><B>9 clean sheet/slate</B><BR><B>10 clean hands</B><BR><B>11【paper】</B><BR><B>12【smooth】</B><BR><B>13 a clean bill of health</B><BR><B>14 a clean sweep</B><BR><B>15【taste】</B><BR><B>16 clean copy</B><BR><B>17【movement】</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English;</FONT> Origin:</FONT> clAne]<BR>*<B>【NOT DIRTY】</B><BR>without any dirt, marks etc<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dirty"><U>dirty</U></A><BR>　*<I>Are your hands clean?</I></FONT><BR>　*<I>clean towels</I></FONT><BR>　*<I>Make sure you <B>keep</B> the wound <B>clean</B> .</I></FONT><BR>　*<I> <B>Wipe</B> that sink <B>clean</B> when you're done.</I></FONT><BR>　*<I>As usual, she left her room <B>clean and tidy</B> before going to school.</I></FONT><BR>　*<I>a <B>spotlessly clean</B> kitchen</I></FONT><BR>　*<I>I want you to get those plates <B>as clean as a whistle.</B> </I></FONT><BR>*<B>【PEOPLE/ANIMALS】</B><BR>having a clean appearance and habits<BR>　*<I>Cats are naturally clean.</I></FONT><BR>*<B>【ENVIRONMENT】</B><BR>containing or producing nothing that is dirty or harmful<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cleanly"><U>cleanly</U></A><BR><B>clean air/water/energy etc</B><BR>　*<I>the Clean Air Act</I></FONT><BR>　*<I> <B>cleaner fuels</B> </I></FONT><BR>*<B>【FAIR OR LEGAL】</B><BR><B>a)</B> done in a fair or legal way<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dirty"><U>dirty</U></A><BR>　*<I>a clean fight</I></FONT><BR><B>b)</B> showing that you have followed the rules<BR>　*<I>a clean driving licence</I></FONT><BR>　*<I>For the last three years, he's had a <B>clean record</B> .</I></FONT><BR><B>c)</B> [not before noun]</FONT> <I>informal</I> <BR>not hiding any weapons or illegal drugs<BR>　*<I>They searched him at the airport, but he was clean.</I></FONT><BR><B>d)</B> [not before noun]</FONT> <BR>no longer taking illegal drugs<BR>　*<I>Dave's been clean for two years now.</I></FONT><BR>*<B>【NOT OFFENSIVE】</B><BR>talk, jokes, behaviour etc that are clean are not offensive or about sex<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dirty"><U>dirty</U></A><BR>　*<I>Oh, don't get mad - it's just <B>good clean fun</B> !</I></FONT><BR>　*<I> <B>Keep it clean</B> (=do not offend people with what you say) .</I></FONT><BR><B>clean living</B><BR>(=a way of life which is healthy and moral) <BR>* <B>come clean</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to finally tell the truth about something you have been hiding<BR><B>come clean about</B><BR>　*<I>The government should come clean about its plans.</I></FONT><BR>* <B>make a clean breast of it</B><BR>to admit that you have done something wrong so that you no longer feel guilty<BR>* <B>a clean break</B><BR><B>a)</B> a complete and sudden separation from a person, organization, or situation<BR>　*<I>Den left the next day, needing to <B>make a clean break</B> .</I></FONT><BR>* <B>clean sheet/slate</B><BR>a record of someone's work, behaviour, performance etc that shows they have not done anything wrong or made any mistakes<BR>　*<I>Jed looked forward to starting life again with a clean sheet.</I></FONT><BR>　*<I>Lewis has <B>kept a clean sheet</B> in every game (=not let the other team score) .</I></FONT><BR>* <B>clean hands</B><BR>if a person, government, organization etc has clean hands, they have done something in a fair or legal way<BR>　*<I>Neither side is coming to the negotiating table with completely clean hands.</I></FONT><BR>*<B>【PAPER】</B><BR>a piece of paper that is clean has not yet been used<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fresh"><U>fresh</U></A><BR>*<B>【SMOOTH】</B><BR>having a smooth or regular edge or surface<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cleanly"><U>cleanly</U></A><BR>　*<I>a clean cut</I></FONT><BR>　*<I>Use a clean, simple typeface for signs.</I></FONT><BR>* <B>a clean bill of health</B><BR>a report that says you are healthy or that a machine or building is safe<BR>　*<I>Inspectors <B>gave</B> the factory <B>a clean bill of health</B> .</I></FONT><BR>* <B>a clean sweep</B><BR><B>a)</B> a very impressive victory in a competition, election etc<BR><B>a clean sweep for</B><BR>　*<I>All the polls had pointed to a clean sweep for the Democrats.</I></FONT><BR>　*<I>Hopes that the French would <B>make a clean sweep</B> at the Games were dashed.</I></FONT><BR><B>b)</B> a complete change in a company or organization, often by removing people<BR>*<B>【TASTE】</B><BR>having a fresh pleasant taste<BR>　*<I>Add a little lemon juice to give the pasta a cool, clean taste.</I></FONT><BR>* <B>clean copy</B><BR>a piece of writing without mistakes or other marks written on it<BR>*<B>【MOVEMENT】</B><BR>a clean movement in sport is skilful and exact<BR>　*<I>He steadied his arm, hoping for a clean shot.</I></FONT><BR><B>&gt;cleanness</B> <I>n</I></FONT> [U]</FONT> <BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/clean-cut"><U>clean-cut</U></A>,keep your nose clean</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/nose"><U>nose</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(9)
<HR>
<B>COLLOCATES for sense 1</FONT></B> <BR><B>keep something clean</B> <BR><B>wipe something clean</B> (=wipe a cloth over something so it is clean) <BR><B>sweep/scrub etc something clean</B> (=rub something hard with a cloth or brush so it is clean) <BR><B>clean and tidy</B> <I>especially BrE</I> <BR><B>neat and clean</B> <I>especially AmE</I> <BR><B>nice and clean</B> <BR><B>spotlessly/scrupulously clean</B> (=very clean) <BR><B>as clean as a whistle</B> (=very clean) <BR><B>WORD FOCUS:</FONT> CLEAN</B> <BR>very clean: <B>spotless, pristine, immaculate, spick and span</B>
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>clean</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">clean<SUP>2</SUP> <B>W3S1</B> <I>v</I> <BR>* [I and T]</FONT> <BR>to remove dirt from something by rubbing or washing<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cleanse"><U>cleanse</U></A><BR>　*<I>Your shoes <B>need cleaning</B> .</I></FONT><BR>　*<I>Is it <B>easy to clean</B> ?</I></FONT><BR><B>clean sth down/off</B><BR>　*<I>We clean the machines down at the end of each day.</I></FONT><BR><B>clean sth off/from sth</B><BR>　*<I>He used a tissue to clean his fingerprints off the gun.</I></FONT><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dry-clean"><U>dry-clean</U></A>,spring-clean</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/spring-cleaning"><U>spring-cleaning</U></A></B><BR>* [I and T]</FONT> <BR>to clean a building or other people's houses as your job<BR>　*<I>Anne comes in to clean twice a week.</I></FONT><BR>* <B>clean your teeth</B><BR><I>BrE</I> to make your teeth clean using a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/toothbrush"><U>toothbrush</U></A> and <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/toothpaste"><U>toothpaste</U></A><BR>American Equivalent: <B>brush your teeth</B><BR>* [T]</FONT> <BR>to remove the inside parts of an animal or bird before cooking it<BR>　*<I>Harry caught the fish and cleaned them himself.</I></FONT><BR>* <B>clean your plate</B><BR>to eat all your food<BR><B>clean out</B> [clean sb/sth out] <I>phr v</I></FONT><BR>* <B>clean sth⇔out</B><BR>to make the inside of a room, house etc clean or tidy<BR>　*<I>We'd better clean out the attic this week.</I></FONT><BR>* <B>clean sb out</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>if something expensive cleans you out, you spend so much money on it that you now have very little left<BR>　*<I>Quite frankly, that trip to Paris cleaned me out.</I></FONT><BR>* <B>clean sb/sth out</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to steal everything from a place, or all of someone's possessions<BR><B>clean up</B> <I>phr v</I></FONT><BR>*to make a place completely clean and tidy<BR>　*<I>We spent all Saturday morning cleaning up.</I></FONT><BR><B>clean sth⇔up</B><BR>　*<I>plans to clean up the beaches</I></FONT><BR><B>clean up after</B><BR>　*<I>John always expects other people to clean up after him (=to make a place clean after he has used it) .</I></FONT><BR>*to wash yourself after you have got very dirty<BR><B>clean yourself up</B><BR>　*<I>Let me just go clean myself up.</I></FONT><BR>　*<I>Dad's upstairs <B>getting cleaned up</B> .</I></FONT><BR>* <B>clean up your act</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to start behaving sensibly and responsibly<BR>　*<I>Some companies could face heavy fines if they fail to clean up their act.</I></FONT><BR>* <I>informal</I> to win a lot of money or make a lot of money in a business deal<BR>　*<I>He cleaned up at the races yesterday.</I></FONT><BR>* <B>clean sth⇔up</B><BR>to improve moral standards in a place or organization<BR>　*<I>It's high time British soccer <B>cleaned up</B> its <B>image</B> .</I></FONT><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/clean-up"><U>clean-up</U></A> </B>
<HR>
<B>WORD FOCUS:</FONT> words meaning CLEAN</B> <BR><B>wash</B> with soap and water <BR><B>wipe</B> with a damp cloth <BR><B>brush</B> with a brush to remove the dirt <BR><B>polish</B> by rubbing with a cloth <BR><B>scrub</B> by rubbing hard <BR><B>sweep</B> with a broom <BR><B>mop</B> with water and a mop (=a tool with a long handle) <BR><B>vacuum</B> <I>also</I> <B>hoover</B> <I>(BrE)</I> with a machine that sucks up dust <BR><B>disinfect</B> using chemicals to kill germs <BR><B>cleanse</B> to clean your skin using a special cream <BR><B>rinse</B> to put water on to remove dirt or soap <BR><B>dust</B> to remove dust, for example with a cloth
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>clean</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">3</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">clean<SUP>3</SUP> <I>adv</I> <BR>used to emphasize the fact that an action or movement is complete and thorough<BR><B>clean away/through/out</B><BR>　*<I>The thieves got clean away with $300,000 worth of equipment.</I></FONT><BR>　*<I>The car hit her with such force that she was lifted clean off the ground.</I></FONT><BR>　*<I>Sorry, I <B>clean forgot</B> (=completely forgot) your birthday.</I></FONT></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>clean</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">4</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">clean<SUP>4</SUP> <I>n</I> [singular]</FONT> <I>BrE</I> <BR>a process in which you clean something<BR>　*<I>The car needs a good clean.</I></FONT></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cleanse"><U>cleanse</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/purify"><U>purify</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/tidy"><U>tidy</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/wash"><U>wash</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dirty"><U>dirty</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/unclean"><U>unclean</U></A></DIV></DIV>
