---
layout: post
title:  "Weak"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">weak<BR><B>W2S3</B> /wiːk/ <I>adj</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【physical】</B><BR><B>2【likely to break】</B><BR><B>3【character】</B><BR><B>4【without power】</B><BR><B>5【without interest】</B><BR><B>6【without energy】</B><BR><B>7【not good at doing something】</B><BR><B>8【money】</B><BR><B>9【argument/idea】</B><BR><B>10【drink】</B><BR><B>11【light/sound】</B><BR><B>12 weak points/spots</B><BR><B>13 weak at the knees</B><BR><B>14 weak moment</B><BR><B>15 the weak/weakest link</B><BR><B>16 weak verb</B><BR><B>17 weak consonant/syllable</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1200-1300; Language: Old Norse; Origin: veikr]<BR>*<B>【PHYSICAL】</B><BR>not physically strong<BR>　*<I>The illness left her <B>feeling weak</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>Poor light produces weak plants.</I><BR><B>be too weak to do sth</B><BR>　*<I>She's too weak to feed herself.</I><BR><B>weak with/from</B><BR>　*<I>Nina was <B>weak with hunger</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>The animal was weak from loss of blood.</I><BR><B>weak heart/lungs etc</B><BR>　*<I>My grandfather had a weak heart.</I><BR>*<B>【LIKELY TO BREAK】</B><BR>unable to support much weight<BR>　*<I>a weak bridge</I><BR><B>too weak to do sth</B><BR>　*<I>The branch was too weak to support his weight.</I><BR>*<B>【CHARACTER】</B><BR>easily influenced by other people - used to show disapproval<BR>　*<I>a weak indecisive man</I><BR>*<B>【WITHOUT POWER】</B><BR>not having much power or influence<BR><B>weak leader/ruler/king etc</B><BR>　*<I>a weak and ineffective president</I> <BR>　*<I>The party was left weak and divided.</I> <BR>　*<I>The country is in a <B>weak position</B> economically.</I><BR>*<B>【WITHOUT INTEREST】</B><BR>without the power to interest or amuse people<BR>　*<I>The play is well acted but the plot is weak.</I><BR>　*<I>a <B>weak joke</B> </I><BR>*<B>【WITHOUT ENERGY】</B><BR>done without energy or confidence<BR>　*<I>He managed a <B>weak smile</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【NOT GOOD AT DOING SOMETHING】</B><BR>not good at a particular skill or subject, or in a particular area of activity or knowledge<BR><B>weak in</B><BR>　*<I>New Zealand was weak in defense.</I><BR><B>weak on</B><BR>　*<I>She speaks quite fluently but she's weak on grammar.</I><BR>　*<I>Be honest about your <B>weak points</B> (=your faults or the things you do not do well) .</I><BR>*<B>【MONEY】</B><BR>not financially successful<BR><B>weak currency/economy etc</B><BR>　*<I>The pound was weak against the dollar.</I><BR>*<B>【ARGUMENT/IDEA】</B><BR>not likely to make people believe that something is true or right<BR>　*<I>She's washing her hair? That sounds like a <B>weak excuse</B> !</I><BR>　*<I>There are some <B>weak points</B> in her argument.</I><BR>　*<I>The defence lawyer clearly knew that his case was weak.</I><BR>*<B>【DRINK】</B><BR>weak tea, beer etc contains a lot of water and has little taste<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/strong"><U>strong</U></A><BR>*<B>【LIGHT/SOUND】</B><BR>difficult to see or hear<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/faint"><U>faint</U></A><BR>　*<I>a <B>weak</B> radio <B>signal</B> </I><BR>　*<I>He had only a <B>weak light</B> to see by.</I><BR>* <B>weak points/spots</B><BR>the parts of something that can easily be attacked or criticized<BR>　*<I>Check your house for weak spots where a thief could enter.</I><BR>* <B>weak at the knees</B><BR>feeling strange because of strong emotions<BR>　*<I>His smile <B>made</B> her <B>go weak at the knees</B> .</I><BR>* <B>weak moment</B><BR>a time when you can be persuaded more easily than usual<BR>　*<I>Dave caught me at a weak moment and I lent him £10.</I><BR>* <B>the weak/weakest link</B><BR>the person or thing in a situation that is less strong, skilful etc than the others<BR>　*<I>Goalkeeper Gouter proved to be the weakest link.</I><BR>* <B>weak verb</B><BR><I>technical</I> a verb that forms regular past tenses<BR>≠ <B>strong verb</B><BR>* <B>weak consonant/syllable</B><BR>one that is not emphasized<BR><B>&gt;weakly</B> <I>adv</I><BR>　*<I>"I'm sorry," she said, smiling weakly.</I><BR>　*<I>He sank down weakly beside her.</I>
<HR>
<B>WORD FOCUS: weak</B> <BR>person: <B>puny, feeble, weedy</B> <I>(BrE), </I><B>frail, fragile, powerless, vulnerable</B> <BR>thing: <B>fragile, delicate, flimsy, rickety, badly made, jerry-built</B> 
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/debilitated"><U>debilitated</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/feeble"><U>feeble</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fragile"><U>fragile</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/impotent"><U>impotent</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/powerless"><U>powerless</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/robust"><U>robust</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/strong"><U>strong</U></A></DIV></DIV>