---
layout: post
title:  "Whistle"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">whis<B>·</B>tle<SUP>1</SUP> /ˈwɪsəl/ <I>v</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【high sound】</B><BR><B>2【use a whistle】</B><BR><B>3【go/move fast】</B><BR><B>4【steam train/kettle】</B><BR><B>5【bird】</B><BR><B>6 be whistling in the dark</B><BR><B>7 somebody can whistle for something</B>
<HR>
*<B>【HIGH SOUND】</B> [I and T]<BR>to make a high or musical sound by blowing air out through your lips<BR>　*<I>Adam whistled happily on his way to work.</I><BR>　*<I>I heard this song on the radio and I've been whistling it all day.</I><BR>　*<I>He <B>whistled</B> a <B>tune</B> as he strolled down the corridor.</I><BR><B>whistle to sb</B><BR>(=whistle to get someone's attention)<BR>　*<I>Dad whistled to us to come home for dinner.</I><BR><B>whistle at sb</B><BR>(=whistle to let someone know that you think they are attractive)<BR>　*<I>Men are always whistling at Heidi on the street.</I><BR>*<B>【USE A WHISTLE】</B> [I]<BR>to make a high sound by blowing into a whistle<BR>　*<I>The referee whistled and the game began.</I><BR>*<B>【GO/MOVE FAST】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to move quickly, making a whistling sound<BR>　*<I>Bullets and shells were whistling overhead.</I><BR>　*<I>They listened to the <B>wind whistling</B> through the trees.</I><BR>*<B>【STEAM TRAIN/KETTLE】</B> [I]<BR>if a steam train or <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/kettle"><U>kettle</U></A> whistles, it makes a high sound when air or steam is forced through a small hole<BR>*<B>【BIRD】</B> [I]<BR>if a bird whistles, it makes a high musical sound<BR>* <B>be whistling in the dark</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to be trying to show that you are brave when you are afraid, or that you know about something when you do not<BR>　*<I>Does he know what he's talking about or is he just whistling in the dark?</I><BR>* <B>sb can whistle for sth</B><BR><I>BrE spoken</I> used to tell someone that there is no chance of them getting what they have asked for</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>whistle</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">whistle<SUP>2</SUP> <I>n</I> [C] <BR><BR>[Language: Old English; Origin: hwistle]<BR>*a small object that produces a high whistling sound when you blow into it<BR>　*<I>The lifeguard <B>blew</B> his <B>whistle</B> .</I><BR>*a high sound made by blowing a whistle, by blowing air out through your lips, or when air or steam is forced through a small opening<BR>　*<I>Larsson scored just minutes before the final whistle.</I><BR><B>low/shrill/high-pitched etc whistle</B><BR>　*<I>Sanders <B>gave a</B> low <B>whistle</B> when he saw the contents of the box.</I><BR>*a piece of equipment on a train or boat that makes a high noise when air is forced through it<BR>*the sound of something moving quickly through the air<BR><B>whistle of</B><BR>　*<I>We could hear the whistle of the jets as they passed overhead.</I><BR>→<B>blow the whistle on sth</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/blow"><U>blow</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(17), <B>clean as a whistle</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/clean"><U>clean</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(1), <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/penny%20whistle"><U>penny whistle</U></A>, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/wolf%20whistle"><U>wolf whistle</U></A></B></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/pennywhistle"><U>pennywhistle</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/sing"><U>sing</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/tin%20whistle"><U>tin whistle</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/whistling"><U>whistling</U></A></DIV></DIV>
