---
layout: post
title:  "Scratch"
categories: school
tag: fail
word_excerpt: A few chickens scratched around in the yard.
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">scratch<SUP>1</SUP> /skrætʃ/ <I>v</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【rub your skin】</B><BR><B>2【cut somebody's skin】</B><BR><B>3【make a mark】</B><BR><B>4【animals】</B><BR><B>5【remove something】</B><BR><B>6【remove writing】</B><BR><B>7【make a noise】</B><BR><B>8 scratch the surface</B><BR><B>9 scratch your head</B><BR><B>10【stop something happening】</B><BR><B>11【remove from race】</B><BR><B>12 you scratch my back, I'll scratch yours</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>scratch around</B><BR>　<B>scratch something⇔out</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1300-1400; Origin: Probably from scrat <I>'to scratch'</I> (13-19 centuries) + cratch <I>'to scratch'</I> (13-16 centuries)]<BR>*<B>【RUB YOUR SKIN】</B> [I and T]<BR>to rub your skin with your nails because it feels uncomfortable<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/itch"><U>itch</U></A><BR>　*<I>John yawned and scratched his leg.</I><BR>　*<I>Try not to scratch.</I><BR><B>scratch at</B><BR>　*<I>He was scratching at the bites on his arm.</I><BR>*<B>【CUT SOMEBODY'S SKIN】</B> [I and T]<BR>to cut someone's skin slightly with your nails or with something sharp<BR>　*<I>She ran at him and scratched his face.</I><BR>　*<I>Don't scratch yourself on the thorns.</I><BR>*<B>【MAKE A MARK】</B> [T]<BR>to make a small cut or mark on something by pulling something sharp across it<BR>　*<I>I'm afraid I've scratched your car.</I><BR>　*<I>Some of the prisoners had scratched their names on the walls.</I><BR>*<B>【ANIMALS】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR>if an animal scratches, it rubs its feet against something, often making a noise<BR>　*<I>A few chickens scratched around in the yard.</I><BR><B>scratch at</B><BR>　*<I>a dog scratching at the door to be let in</I><BR>*<B>【REMOVE SOMETHING】</B> [T always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to remove something from a surface by rubbing it with something sharp<BR><B>scratch sth off/away etc</B><BR>　*<I>I scratched away a little of the paint with my fingernail.</I><BR>*<B>【REMOVE WRITING】</B> [T always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to remove a word from a piece of writing by drawing a line through it<BR><B>scratch sth from/off sth</B><BR>　*<I>I have scratched his name from the list.</I><BR>*<B>【MAKE A NOISE】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to make a rough sound by moving something sharp across a surface<BR>　*<I>His pen scratched away on the paper.</I><BR>* <B>scratch the surface</B><BR>to deal with only a very small part of a subject or problem<BR><B>scratch the surface of</B><BR>　*<I>I think we have only scratched the surface of this problem.</I><BR>* <B>scratch your head</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to think carefully about a difficult question or problem<BR>　*<I>This crisis has politicians scratching their heads and wondering what to do.</I><BR>*<B>【STOP SOMETHING HAPPENING】</B> [T] <I>informal</I><BR>if you scratch an idea or a plan, you decide that you will not do it<BR>*<B>【REMOVE FROM RACE】</B> [I and T] <I>informal</I><BR>if someone scratches from a race, or if you scratch them from the race, they do not take part in it<BR>* <B>you scratch my back, I'll scratch yours</B><BR><I>spoken</I> used to say that you will help someone if they agree to help you<BR>→<B>scrape/scratch a living</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/living"><U>living</U></A> </B><SUP>2 </SUP>(1)<BR><B>scratch around</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>to try to find or get something which is difficult to find or get<BR><B>scratch around for</B><BR>　*<I>homeless people scratching around for a place to shelter</I><BR><B>scratch out</B> [scratch sth⇔out] <I>phr v</I><BR>to remove a word from a piece of writing by drawing a line through it<BR>　*<I>Emma's name had been scratched out.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>scratch</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">scratch<SUP>2</SUP> <I>n</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【cut】</B><BR><B>2【mark】</B><BR><B>3 from scratch</B><BR><B>4 up to scratch</B><BR><B>5【rub】</B><BR><B>6【sound】</B>
<HR>
*<B>【CUT】</B> [C] <BR>a small cut on someone's skin<BR>　*<I>There were <B>deep scratches</B> all over her face.</I><BR>　*<I>Don't worry, it's <B>only a scratch</B> (=not a serious injury) .</I><BR>　*<I>She was unharmed apart from a few cuts and scratches.</I><BR>*<B>【MARK】</B> [C] <BR>a thin mark or cut on the surface of something<BR>　*<I>There was a big scratch on the car door.</I><BR>* <B>from scratch</B><BR>if you start something from scratch, you begin it without using anything that existed or was prepared before<BR>　*<I>We had to <B>start</B> again <B>from scratch</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>He had <B>built</B> the business up <B>from scratch</B> .</I><BR>* <B>up to scratch</B><BR><I>BrE informal</I> good enough for a particular standard<BR>　*<I>Some of this work isn't up to scratch.</I><BR><B>bring/get sth up to scratch</B><BR>　*<I>We spent thousands of pounds getting the house up to scratch.</I><BR>*<B>【RUB】</B> [singular]<BR><I>especially BrE</I> when you rub part of your body with your nails because it feels uncomfortable<BR>　*<I>He stretched and <B>had a scratch</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>He brushed his hair and <B>gave</B> his scalp a good <B>scratch</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【SOUND】</B> [C] <BR>a sound made by something sharp or rough being rubbed on a hard surface<BR>　*<I>I heard the scratch of a match lighting a cigarette.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>scratch</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">3</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">scratch<SUP>3</SUP> <I>adj</I> [no comparative] <BR>*a scratch team or group of people has been put together in a hurry, using anyone that is available<BR>*a scratch player in golf is very good and is not given any advantage in games</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cut"><U>cut</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/engrave"><U>engrave</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/graze"><U>graze</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/mark"><U>mark</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/scar"><U>scar</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/score"><U>score</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/scrape"><U>scrape</U></A></DIV></DIV>
