---
layout: post
title:  "Dream"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">dream<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W2S2</B> /driːm/ <I>n</I> [C] 
<HR>
<B>1【while sleeping】</B><BR><B>2【wish】</B><BR><B>3 dream house/home/job etc</B><BR><B>4 in a dream</B><BR><B>5 be a dream come true</B><BR><B>6 like a dream</B><BR><B>7 be/live in a dream world</B><BR><B>8 be a dream</B><BR><B>9 in your dreams</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English; Origin: dream <I>'noise, great happiness'</I>]<BR>*<B>【WHILE SLEEPING】</B><BR>a series of thoughts, images, and feelings that you experience when you are asleep<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/daydream"><U>daydream</U></A> <B>in a dream</B><BR>　*<I>In my dream I flew to a forest of enormous trees.</I><BR>　*<I>I <B>had</B> a really weird <B>dream</B> last night.</I><BR>　*<I>Nick sleeps in my room because he has <B>bad dreams</B> (=frightening dreams) sometimes.</I><BR><B>dream about</B><BR>　*<I>dreams about drowning</I><BR><B>recurring dream</B><BR>(=a dream you have again and again) <BR><B>be/seem like a dream</B><BR>(=seem unreal)<BR>　*<I>Those few short months with Tony seemed like a dream to her.</I><BR>　*<I>Seeing him again was like a bad dream (=so unpleasant that it seemed unreal) .</I><BR>*<B>【WISH】</B><BR>a wish to do, be, or have something - used especially when this seems unlikely<BR>　*<I>Her dream is to make a movie.</I><BR><B>dream of (doing) sth</B><BR>　*<I>Sheila <B>had dreams</B> of university.</I><BR><B>fulfil/realize a dream</B><BR>　*<I>I fulfilled a childhood dream when I became champion in June.</I><BR><B>the man/woman/dress/place etc of your dreams</B><BR>(=the perfect man, woman etc)<BR>　*<I>I have just met the man of my dreams!</I><BR><B>beyond your wildest dreams</B><BR>(=better than anything you ever imagined or hoped for) <BR><B>not/never in your wildest dreams</B><BR>(=used to emphasize that you think something is very strange or unlikely)<BR>　*<I>Never in my wildest dreams had I thought I would go to Hollywood.</I><BR>* <B>dream house/home/job etc</B><BR>something that seems perfect to someone<BR>　*<I>I've finally found my dream house.</I><BR>　*<I>Win a dream holiday for two in San Francisco!</I><BR>* <B>in a dream</B><BR>having a state of mind in which you do not notice or pay attention to things around you<BR>　*<I>Ruth went about her tasks in a dream.</I><BR>* <B>be a dream come true</B><BR>if something is a dream come true, it happens after you have wanted it to happen for a long time<BR>　*<I>Marriage to her is a dream come true.</I><BR>* <B>like a dream</B><BR>extremely well or effectively<BR>　*<I>The plan <B>worked like a dream</B> .</I><BR>* <B>be/live in a dream world</B><BR>to have ideas or hopes that are not correct or likely to happen<BR>　*<I>If you think that all homeless people have it as easy as me, then you are living in dream world.</I><BR>* <B>be a dream</B><BR>be perfect or very desirable<BR>　*<I>Her latest boyfriend is an absolute dream.</I><BR>　*<I>Some performers are a dream to work with; others are not.</I><BR><B>sb's dream</B><BR>(=something someone would really like)<BR>　*<I>She's every adolescent schoolboy's dream.</I><BR>* <B>in your dreams</B><BR><I>spoken</I> used to say in a rude way that something is not likely to happen<BR>　*<I>'I'm going to ask her to go out with me.' 'In your dreams!'</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>dream</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">dream<SUP>2</SUP> <B>S3</B> <I>v past tense and past participle</I> <B>dreamed</B> <I>or</I> <B>dreamt</B> /dremt/
<HR>
<B>1【wish】</B><BR><B>2【while sleeping】</B><BR><B>3【not pay attention】</B><BR><B>4【imagine】</B><BR><B>5 never dreamed (that)</B><BR><B>6 wouldn't dream of (doing) something</B><BR><B>7 who would have dreamt that ...?</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>dream something⇔away</B><BR>　<B>dream on</B><BR>　<B>dream something⇔up</B>
<HR>
*<B>【WISH】</B> [I and T]<BR>to think about something that you would like to happen or have<BR><B>dream of/about (doing) sth</B><BR>　*<I>She dreamed of becoming a chef.</I><BR>　*<I>He's got the sort of money that you and I can <B>only dream about</B> .</I><BR><B>dream (that)</B><BR>　*<I>She dreamed that one day she would be famous.</I><BR>*<B>【WHILE SLEEPING】</B> [I and T]<BR>to have a dream while you are asleep<BR><B>dream about</B><BR>　*<I>I dreamt about you last night.</I><BR><B>dream (that)</B><BR>　*<I>It's quite common to dream that you're falling.</I><BR>*<B>【NOT PAY ATTENTION】</B> [I]<BR>to think about something else and not give your attention to what is happening around you<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/daydream"><U>daydream</U></A><BR>　*<I>She had been dreaming and had not followed the conversation.</I><BR>*<B>【IMAGINE】</B> [I and T]<BR>to imagine that you have done, seen, or heard something that you have not<BR>　*<I>I was sure I posted the letter but I <B>must have dreamt it</B> .</I><BR>* <B>never dreamed (that)</B><BR>used to say that you did not think that something would happen<BR>　*<I>We never dreamed that we would get through to the next round.</I><BR>* <B>wouldn't dream of (doing) sth</B><BR><I>spoken</I> used to say that you would never do something because you think it is bad or wrong<BR>　*<I>I wouldn't dream of letting strangers look after my own grandmother!</I><BR>* <B>who would have dreamt that ...?</B><BR><I>spoken</I> used to express surprise about something that has happened<BR>　*<I>Who would have dreamed that this would happen?</I><BR><B>dream away</B> [dream sth⇔away] <I>phr v</I><BR>to waste time by thinking about what may happen<BR>　*<I>She would just sit in her room dreaming away the hours.</I><BR><B>dream on</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>used to tell someone that they are hoping for something that will not happen<BR>　*<I>You think I'm going to help you move house? Dream on!</I><BR><B>dream up</B> [dream sth⇔up] <I>phr v</I><BR>to think of a plan or idea, especially an unusual one<BR>　*<I>He was continually dreaming up new schemes to promote and enlarge the business.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/imagine"><U>imagine</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/muse"><U>muse</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/vision"><U>vision</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/reality"><U>reality</U></A></DIV></DIV>
