---
layout: post
title:  "Failure"
categories: undefined
tag: easy
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">fail<B>·</B>ure<BR><B>W2S2</B> /ˈfeɪljə US -ər/ <I>n</I>
<HR>
<B>1【lack of success】</B><BR><B>2【unsuccessful person/thing】</B><BR><B>3 failure to do something</B><BR><B>4【business】</B><BR><B>5【machine/body part】</B><BR><B>6【crops】</B>
<HR>
*<B>【LACK OF SUCCESS】</B> [U and C]<BR>a lack of success in achieving or doing something<BR>≠ <A href="dict://key.D4722835273E184582F2D24696A738EA/success"><U>success</U></A><BR>　*<I>Winston is not someone who accepts failure easily.</I><BR><B>failure to do sth</B><BR>　*<I>the conference's failure to reach an agreement</I><BR><B>end/result in failure</B><BR>　*<I>Harry's plans ended in failure.</I><BR>*<B>【UNSUCCESSFUL PERSON/THING】</B> [C] <BR>someone or something that is not successful<BR>≠ <A href="dict://key.D4722835273E184582F2D24696A738EA/success"><U>success</U></A><BR>　*<I>I always felt a bit of a failure at school.</I><BR><B>a total/complete failure</B><BR>　*<I>The advertising campaign was a total failure.</I><BR>* <B>failure to do sth</B><BR>an act of not doing something which should be done or which people expect you to do<BR>　*<I>Failure to produce proof of identity could result in prosecution.</I><BR>*<B>【BUSINESS】</B> [U and C]<BR>a situation in which a business has to close because of a lack of money<BR>　*<I>Business failures in Scotland rose 10% last year.</I><BR>*<B>【MACHINE/BODY PART】</B> [U and C]<BR>an occasion when a machine or part of your body stops working properly<BR>　*<I>The cause of the crash was engine failure.</I><BR><B>heart/kidney/liver etc failure</B><BR>　*<I>He died from kidney failure.</I><BR><B>failure in</B><BR>　*<I>a failure in the computer system</I><BR>*<B>【CROPS】</B> [U and C]<BR>an occasion when crops do not grow or produce food, for example because of bad weather<BR>　*<I>a series of <B>crop failures</B> </I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/success"><U>success</U></A></DIV></DIV>
