---
layout: post
title:  "Wipe"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">wipe<SUP>1</SUP> <B>S3</B> /waɪp/ <I>v</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【clean/rub】</B><BR><B>2【remove dirt】</B><BR><B>3【computer/tape】</B><BR><B>4 wipe something from your mind/memory</B><BR><B>5 wipe the floor with somebody</B><BR><B>6 wipe the slate clean</B><BR><B>7 wipe the smile/grin off somebody's face</B><BR><B>8 wipe something off the face of the earth/wipe something off the map</B><BR><B>9【plates/cups etc】</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>wipe something⇔away</B><BR>　<B>wipe something⇔down</B><BR>　<B>wipe something off something</B><BR>　<B>wipe out</B><BR>　<B>wipe something⇔up</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English; Origin: wipian]<BR>*<B>【CLEAN/RUB】</B> [T]<BR><B>a)</B> to rub a surface with something in order to remove dirt, liquid etc<BR><B>wipe sth with sth</B><BR>　*<I>Wipe the table with a damp cloth.</I><BR>　*<I>Bill <B>wiped</B> his <B>eyes</B> (=wiped the tears from his face) and apologized.</I><BR>　*<I>He pulled a handkerchief from his pocket and <B>wiped</B> his <B>nose</B> .</I><BR><B>b)</B> to clean something by rubbing it against a surface<BR><B>wipe sth on sth</B><BR>　*<I>He wiped his mouth on the back of his hand.</I><BR>*<B>【REMOVE DIRT】</B> [T always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to remove liquid, dirt, or marks by wiping<BR><B>wipe sth off/from etc sth</B><BR>　*<I>Kim wiped the sweat from her face.</I><BR>*<B>【COMPUTER/TAPE】</B> [T]<BR>to remove all the information that is stored on a tape, video, or computer <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/disk"><U>disk</U></A><BR>* <B>wipe sth from your mind/memory</B><BR>to try to forget an unpleasant experience<BR>* <B>wipe the floor with sb</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to defeat someone completely in a competition or argument<BR>* <B>wipe the slate clean</B><BR>to agree to forget about mistakes or arguments that happened in the past<BR>* <B>wipe the smile/grin off sb's face</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to make someone feel less happy or confident, especially someone who is annoying because they think they are clever<BR>　*<I>Tell him how much it'll cost - that should wipe the smile off his face!</I><BR>* <B>wipe sth off the face of the earth/wipe sth off the map</B><BR>to destroy something completely<BR>　*<I>Another few years and this species could be wiped off the face of the earth.</I><BR>*<B>【PLATES/CUPS ETC】</B> [I and T]<BR>to dry plates, cups etc that have been washed<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/dry"><U>dry</U></A><BR>　*<I>You wash, I'll wipe.</I><BR><B>wipe away</B> [wipe sth⇔away] <I>phr v</I><BR>to stop something existing<BR>　*<I>A frown quickly wiped away her smile.</I><BR><B>wipe down</B> [wipe sth⇔down] <I>phr v</I><BR>to completely clean a surface using a wet cloth<BR><B>wipe off</B> [wipe sth off sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>to reduce the value of <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/share"><U>shares</U></A> or prices by a particular amount<BR>　*<I>Nearly £7 billion has been wiped off share prices worldwide.</I><BR><B>wipe out</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>* <B>wipe sb/sth⇔out</B><BR>to destroy, remove, or get rid of something completely<BR>　*<I>Whole villages were wiped out by the floods.</I><BR>　*<I>Nothing could wipe out his bitter memories of the past.</I><BR>* <B>wipe sb⇔out</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to make you feel extremely tired<BR>　*<I>The heat had wiped us out.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/wiped%20out"><U>wiped out</U></A></B><BR>* <I>AmE</I> to fall or hit another object when driving a car, riding a bicycle etc<BR><B>wipe up</B> [wipe sth⇔up] <I>phr v</I><BR>to remove liquid from a surface using a cloth<BR>　*<I>I hastily wiped up the milk I had spilled.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>wipe</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">wipe<SUP>2</SUP> <I>n</I> [C] <BR>*a wiping movement with a cloth<BR>　*<I>An occasional wipe with a soft cloth will keep the surface shiny.</I><BR>　*<I> <B>Give</B> the baby's nose <B>a wipe,</B> would you?</I><BR>*a special piece of wet material that you use to clean someone or something and then throw away<BR>　*<I>a pack of baby wipes</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rub"><U>rub</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/stroke"><U>stroke</U></A></DIV></DIV>
