---
layout: post
title:  "Suppose"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">sup<B>·</B>pose<BR><B>W1S1</B> /səˈpəuz US -ˈpouz/ <I>v</I> [T] <BR>[Date: 1300-1400; Language: Old French; Origin: supposer, from <I>Latin</I> supponere <I>'to put under, substitute'</I>, from sub- ( <B>SUB-</B>) + ponere <I>'to put'</I>]<BR>* <I>spoken</I> <B>I suppose</B><BR><B>a)</B> used to say you think something is true, although you are uncertain about it<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/guess"><U>I guess</U></A> <B>I suppose (that)</B><BR>　*<I>I suppose you're right.</I><BR>　*<I>So things worked out for the best, I suppose.</I><BR>　*<I>'Aren't you pleased?' 'Yes, <B>I suppose so</B> .'</I><BR><B>b)</B> used when agreeing to let someone do something, especially when you do not really want to<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/guess"><U>I guess</U></A><BR>　*<I>'Can we come with you?' 'Oh, <B>I suppose so</B> .'</I><BR><B>c)</B> used when saying in an angry way that you expect something is true<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/guess"><U>I guess</U></A> <B>I suppose (that)</B><BR>　*<I>I suppose you thought you were being clever!</I><BR><B>d)</B> used to say that you think that something is probably true, although you wish it was not and hope someone will tell you it is not<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/guess"><U>I guess</U></A> <B>I suppose (that)</B><BR>　*<I>I suppose it's too late to apply for that job now.</I><BR><B>e)</B> used when guessing that something is true<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/guess"><U>I guess</U></A><BR>　*<I>She looked about 50, I suppose.</I><BR>* <I>spoken</I> <B>I don't suppose (that)</B><BR><B>a)</B> used to ask a question in an indirect way, especially if you think the answer will be 'no'<BR>　*<I>I don't suppose you have any idea where my address book is, do you?</I><BR><B>b)</B> used to ask for something in a very polite way<BR>　*<I>I don't suppose you'd give me a lift to the station?</I><BR><B>c)</B> used to say that you think it is unlikely something will happen<BR>　*<I>I don't suppose I'll ever see her again.</I><BR>* <I>spoken</I> <B>do you suppose (that) ...?</B><BR>used to ask someone their opinion about something, although you know that it is unlikely that they have any more information about the situation than you do<BR>　*<I>Do you suppose this is the exact spot?</I><BR><B>who/what/why etc do you suppose...?</B><BR>　*<I>Who on earth do you suppose could have done this?</I><BR>　*<I>How do you suppose he got here?</I><BR>* <I>spoken</I> <B>what's that supposed to mean?</B><BR>used when you are annoyed by what someone has just said<BR>　*<I>'It sounds like things aren't going too well for you lately.' 'What's that supposed to mean?'</I><BR>* <I>spoken</I> <B>suppose/supposing (that)</B><BR>used when talking about a possible condition or situation, and then imagining the result<BR>　*<I>Look, suppose you lost your job tomorrow, what would you do?</I><BR>　*<I>Supposing it really is a fire!</I><BR>* <B>be supposed to do/be sth</B><BR><B>a)</B> used to say what someone should or should not do, especially because of rules or what someone in authority has said<BR>　*<I>We're supposed to check out of the hotel by 11 o'clock.</I><BR>　*<I>I'm not supposed to tell anyone.</I><BR>　*<I>What time are you supposed to be there?</I><BR><B>b)</B> used to say what was or is expected or intended to happen, especially when it did not happen<BR>　*<I>No one was supposed to know about it.</I><BR>　*<I>The meeting was supposed to take place on Tuesday, but we've had to postpone it.</I><BR>　*<I>The new laws are supposed to prevent crime.</I><BR><B>c)</B> used to say that something is believed to be true by many people, although it might not be true or you might disagree<BR>　*<I>The castle is supposed to be haunted.</I><BR>　*<I>'Dirty Harry' is supposed to be one of Eastwood's best films.</I><BR>　*<I>Mrs Carver is supposed to have a lot of money.</I><BR>* [not in progressive] <BR>to think that something is probably true, based on what you know<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/presume"><U>presume</U></A><BR>　*<I>There were many more deaths than was first supposed.</I><BR><B>suppose (that)</B><BR>　*<I>What makes you suppose we're going to sell the house?</I><BR>　*<I> <B>There's no reason to suppose</B> (=it is unlikely that) he's lying.</I><BR>* [not in progressive] <I>formal</I> <BR>to expect that something will happen or be true, and to base your plans on it<BR>　*<I>The company's plan supposes a steady increase in orders.</I>
<HR>
<B>WORD CHOICE: suppose, guess</B> <BR>In spoken phrases, <B>I suppose</B> and <B>I guess</B> are used in the same way, but <B>suppose</B> is more usual in British English and <B>guess</B> in American English : <I>I suppose that's his mum. </I>| <I>I guess you're right. </I>| <I>I suppose you can come if you want to. </I>| <I>I guess I'll go home now.</I> |<I>'Should we sit here?' 'I suppose so.' </I>| <I>'Isn't he coming?' 'I guess not.'</I> <BR>GRAMMAR<BR><B>!!</B> Do not say 'be suppose to do something'. Use <B>be supposed to</B> : <I>You're supposed to take your shoes off. </I>| <I>He's supposed to be very clever.</I> 
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assume"><U>assume</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/believe"><U>believe</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/consider"><U>consider</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/deduce"><U>deduce</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/imagine"><U>imagine</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/infer"><U>infer</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/presume"><U>presume</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/think"><U>think</U></A></DIV></DIV>
