---
layout: post
title:  "Assume"
categories: office
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">as<B>·</B>sume<BR><B>W1S1</B> /əˈsjuːm US əˈsuːm/ <I>v</I> [T] <BR>[Date: 1500-1600; Language: Latin; Origin: assumere, from ad- <I>'to'</I> + sumere <I>'to take'</I>]<BR>*to think that something is true, although you do not have definite proof<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/presume"><U>presume</U></A> <B>assume (that)</B><BR>　*<I>I didn't see your car, so I assumed you'd gone out.</I><BR><B>it is/seems reasonable to assume (that)</B><BR>　*<I>It seems reasonable to assume that the book was written around 70 AD.</I><BR>　*<I>I think <B>we can safely assume</B> (=it is almost certain) that interest rates will go up again soon.</I><BR><B>let us/let's assume (that)</B><BR>(=used when thinking about a possible event or situation and its possible results)<BR>　*<I>Let us assume for a moment that we could indeed fire her. Should we?</I><BR>　*<I>When it got to midnight and Paul was still not back, I began to <B>assume the worst</B> (=think that the worst possible thing had happened) .</I><BR>* <B>assume control/responsibility etc</B><BR><I>formal</I> to start to have control, responsibility etc or to start in a particular position or job<BR>　*<I>Whoever they appoint will <B>assume responsibility for</B> all financial matters.</I><BR>　*<I>He <B>assumed power</B> in a bloody coup in 1990.</I><BR>　*<I>Jim Paton will <B>assume the role of</B> managing director.</I><BR>* <B>assume a manner/air/expression etc</B><BR><I>formal</I> to behave in a way that does not show how you really feel, especially in order to seem more confident, happy etc than you are<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/put%20on"><U>put on</U></A><BR>　*<I>Andy assumed an air of indifference whenever her name was mentioned.</I><BR>*to start to have a particular quality or appearance<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/take%20on"><U>take on</U></A><BR>　*<I>These relationships <B>assume</B> great <B>importance</B> in times of crisis.</I><BR>　*<I>The problem is beginning to <B>assume</B> massive <B>proportions</B> .</I><BR>*to be based on the idea that something else is correct<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/presuppose"><U>presuppose</U></A> <B>assume (that)</B><BR>　*<I>The theory assumes that both labour and capital are mobile.</I><BR>　*<I>Coen's economic forecast assumes a 3.5% growth rate.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assuming"><U>assuming</U></A></B></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/adopt"><U>adopt</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/believe"><U>believe</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/presume"><U>presume</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/put%20on"><U>put on</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/suppose"><U>suppose</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/suspect"><U>suspect</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/think"><U>think</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/understand"><U>understand</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/conclude"><U>conclude</U></A></DIV></DIV>
