---
layout: post
title:  "Loan"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">loan<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W2S2</B> /ləun US loun/ <I>n</I> <BR>[Date: 1100-1200; Language: Old Norse; Origin: lan]<BR>* [C] <BR>an amount of money that you borrow from a bank etc<BR><B>loan of</B><BR>　*<I>a loan of £60,000</I><BR>　*<I>I had to <B>take out</B> a <B>loan</B> to buy my car.</I><BR>　*<I>It'll be years before we've <B>paid off the loan</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>The organization was allowed to <B>make loans</B> to private businesses.</I><BR>* <I>I'll get a <B>bank loan</B> if necessary.</I> <BR>* <I>The average <B>home loan</B> is now almost triple what it was at the beginning of the Eighties.</I> <BR>* <I>An <B>interest-free loan</B> fund is available for students who find themselves in unforeseen financial difficulty.</I> <BR>* <I>They were unable to keep up with their <B>loan repayments</B> .</I><BR>* [singular] <BR>when you lend something to someone<BR><B>loan of</B><BR>　*<I>Thanks for the loan of your camera.</I><BR>* <B>on loan (from sb/sth)</B><BR>if something or someone is on loan, they have been borrowed<BR>　*<I>The book I wanted was out on loan.</I><BR>　*<I>paintings on loan from the Louvre</I><BR>　*<I>Cantona initially went on loan to Leeds United.</I>
<HR>
<B>COLLOCATES for sense 1</B> <BR><B>take out a loan</B> (=borrow money) <BR><B>repay/pay off/pay back a loan</B> (=give back money you have borrowed) <BR><B>make a loan</B> <I>American English</I> (=give someone a loan) <BR><B>bank loan</B> (=money lent by a bank) <BR><B>car/home loan</B> (=a loan to buy a car etc) <BR><B>personal loan</B> (=money lent to anindividual ) <BR><B>business loan</B> (=money lent to a business) <BR><B>student loan</B> (=money lent to students to pay for university) <BR><B>interest-free loan</B> (=a loan on which you only repay the amount you borrowed) <BR><B>loan repayment</B> 
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>loan</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">loan<SUP>2</SUP> <I>v</I> [T] <BR>* <I>AmE</I> to lend someone something, especially money<BR><B>loan sb sth</B><BR>　*<I>Can you loan me $5?</I><BR>　*<I>Jeff's loaned us his car for the weekend.</I><BR>* <I>also</I> <B>loan out</B> <BR><I>BrE</I> to lend something valuable to someone<BR>　*<I>The National Library has loaned several manuscripts.</I><BR><B>loan sth to sb/sth</B><BR>　*<I>Two of the steam trains have been loaned to other railways.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/advance"><U>advance</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/give"><U>give</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/lend"><U>lend</U></A></DIV></DIV>
