---
layout: post
title:  "Drift"
categories: school
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">drift<SUP>1</SUP> /drɪft/ <I>v</I> [I] 
<HR>
<B>1【move slowly】</B><BR><B>2【without plan】</B><BR><B>3【change】</B><BR><B>4【money/prices】</B><BR><B>5【snow/sand】</B><BR><B>6 let something drift</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>drift apart</B><BR>　<B>drift off</B>
<HR>
*<B>【MOVE SLOWLY】</B><BR>to move slowly on water or in the air<BR><B>drift out/towards etc</B><BR>　*<I>The rubber raft drifted out to sea.</I><BR>　*<I>Smoke drifted up from the jungle ahead of us.</I><BR>*<B>【WITHOUT PLAN】</B><BR>to move, change, or do something without any plan or purpose<BR><B>drift around/along etc</B><BR>　*<I>Jenni spent the year drifting around Europe.</I><BR><B>drift into</B><BR>　*<I>I just drifted into teaching, really.</I><BR><B>drift away</B><BR>　*<I>The others drifted away. Melanie stayed.</I><BR><B>drift from sth to sth</B><BR>　*<I>The <B>conversation drifted</B> from one topic to another.</I><BR><B>let your gaze/eyes/thoughts/mind etc drift</B><BR>　*<I>Idly she let her eyes drift over his desk.</I><BR>*<B>【CHANGE】</B><BR>to gradually change from being in one condition, situation etc into another without realizing it<BR><B>drift into</B><BR>　*<I>She was just <B>drifting into sleep</B> when the alarm went off.</I><BR>　*<I>He <B>drifted in and out of consciousness</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【MONEY/PRICES】</B><BR>if values, prices, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/share"><U>shares</U></A> etc drift, they gradually change<BR>　*<I>The dollar drifted lower against the yen today.</I><BR>*<B>【SNOW/SAND】</B><BR>if snow, sand etc drifts, the wind blows it into large piles<BR>* <B>let sth drift</B><BR>to allow something, especially something bad, to continue in the same way<BR>　*<I>He couldn't let the matter drift for much longer.</I><BR><B>drift apart</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>if people drift apart, their relationship gradually ends<BR>　*<I>Over the years my college friends and I have drifted apart.</I><BR><B>drift off</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>to gradually fall asleep<BR>　*<I>I was just drifting off when the phone rang.</I><BR>　*<I>He felt himself <B>drifting off to sleep</B> .</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>drift</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">drift<SUP>2</SUP> <I>n</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【snow/sand】</B><BR><B>2【change】</B><BR><B>3【movement of people】</B><BR><B>4 the drift (of something)</B><BR><B>5【ships/planes】</B><BR><B>6【slow movement】</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1300-1400; Origin: Probably from <I>Old Norse</I> drift <I>'pile of wind-blown snow'</I>; related to drive]<BR>*<B>【SNOW/SAND】</B> [C] <BR>a large pile of snow or sand that has been blown by the wind<BR><B>drift of</B><BR>　*<I>The road is blocked with massive drifts of snow.</I><BR>　*<I>a snow drift</I><BR>*<B>【CHANGE】</B> [singular]<BR>a slow change or development from one situation, opinion etc to another<BR><B>drift towards/to</B><BR>　*<I>a drift towards longer working hours</I><BR>*<B>【MOVEMENT OF PEOPLE】</B> [singular, U]<BR>a slow movement of large numbers of people that has not been planned<BR><B>drift from/to/into</B><BR>　*<I>the drift from the countryside to the cities</I><BR>* <B>the drift (of sth)</B><BR>the general meaning of what someone is saying<BR>　*<I>So what's the drift of the argument?</I><BR><B>follow/get/catch sb's drift</B><BR>(=understand the general meaning of what someone is saying)<BR>　*<I>She didn't quite get my drift, did she?</I><BR>*<B>【SHIPS/PLANES】</B>[U]<BR>the movement of a ship or plane from its original direction because of the movement of the wind or water<BR>*<B>【SLOW MOVEMENT】</B>[U]<BR>very slow movement, especially over water or through the air</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cruise"><U>cruise</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/float"><U>float</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/glide"><U>glide</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/meander"><U>meander</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/ramble"><U>ramble</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/roam"><U>roam</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/stray"><U>stray</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/wander"><U>wander</U></A></DIV></DIV>
