---
layout: post
title:  "Approach"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">ap<B>·</B>proach<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W2S3</B> /əˈprəutʃ US əˈproutʃ/ <I>v</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【move towards】</B><BR><B>2【ask】</B><BR><B>3【future event】</B><BR><B>4【deal with】</B><BR><B>5【almost】</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1300-1400; Language: Old French; Origin: aprochier, from <I>Late Latin</I> appropiare, from <I>Latin</I> ad- <I>'to'</I> + prope <I>'near'</I>]<BR>*<B>【MOVE TOWARDS】</B> [I and T]<BR>to move towards or nearer to someone or something<BR>　*<I>As I approached the house, I noticed a light on upstairs.</I><BR>　*<I>She heard footsteps approaching.</I><BR>*<B>【ASK】</B> [T]<BR>to ask someone for something, or ask them to do something, especially when you are asking them for the first time or when you are not sure if they will do it<BR><B>approach sb for sth</B><BR>　*<I>Students should be able to approach teachers for advice.</I><BR><B>approach sb/sth about (doing) sth</B><BR>　*<I>The charity approached several stores about giving food aid.</I><BR>　*<I>I have already been approached by several other companies (=offered a job, work etc) .</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/approachable"><U>approachable</U></A></B><BR>*<B>【FUTURE EVENT】</B> [I and T]<BR>if an event or a particular time approaches, or you approach it, it is coming nearer and will happen soon<BR>　*<I>She was then approaching the end of her career.</I><BR>　*<I>The time is <B>fast approaching</B> when we will have to make a decision.</I><BR>　*<I>With winter approaching, many animals are storing food.</I><BR>*<B>【DEAL WITH】</B> [T]<BR>to begin to deal with a situation or problem in a particular way or with a particular attitude<BR><B>approach a problem/task/matter etc</B><BR>　*<I>It might be possible to approach the problem in a different way.</I><BR>*<B>【ALMOST】</B> [I and T]<BR>to be almost equal to something<BR>　*<I>temperatures approaching 35ºC</I><BR>　*<I>He's never had anything approaching a normal life.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>approach</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">approach<SUP>2</SUP> <B>W1S3</B> <I>n</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【method】</B><BR><B>2【ask】</B><BR><B>3 the approach of something</B><BR><B>4【movement towards】</B><BR><B>5【path/road】</B><BR><B>6【aircraft】</B>
<HR>
*<B>【METHOD】</B> [C] <BR>a method of doing something or dealing with a problem<BR><B>approach to</B><BR>　*<I>a new approach to teaching languages</I><BR>* <I>He decided to <B>adopt a</B> different <B>approach</B> and teach the Bible through story-telling.</I> <BR>* <I>This book <B>takes an</B> unorthodox <B>approach</B> to art criticism.</I> <BR>* <I>organizations which take a <B>positive approach</B> to creative thinking</I> <BR>*<B>【ASK】</B> [C] <BR>a request from someone, asking you to do something for them<BR>　*<I>They <B>made</B> a direct <B>approach to</B> the minister of education.</I><BR>* <B>the approach of sth</B><BR>the approach of a particular time or event is the fact that it is getting closer<BR>　*<I>the approach of autumn</I><BR>　*<I>It's a sign of the approach of middle age.</I><BR>*<B>【MOVEMENT TOWARDS】</B>[U]<BR>movement towards or near to something<BR>　*<I>Our approach frightened the birds.</I><BR>*<B>【PATH/ROAD】</B> [C] <BR>a road, path etc that leads to a place, and is the main way of reaching it<BR>　*<I>Soldiers were guarding the approaches to the city.</I><BR>　*<I>an <B>approach road</B> </I><BR>*<B>【AIRCRAFT】</B> [C] <BR>the final part of a plane's flight, before it lands at an airport<BR>　*<I>It was clear to land so we <B>made</B> our <B>approach</B> .</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/access"><U>access</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/advance"><U>advance</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/come%20near"><U>come near</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/entrance"><U>entrance</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/inlet"><U>inlet</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/passageway"><U>passageway</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/leave"><U>leave</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/part"><U>part</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/separate"><U>separate</U></A></DIV></DIV>
