---
layout: post
title:  "Worth"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">worth<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W2S1</B> /wəːθ US wəːrθ/ <I>prep</I> <BR>[Language: Old English; Origin: weorth <I>'worthy, of a particular value'</I>]<BR>* <B>be worth sth</B><BR><B>a)</B> to have a value in money<BR>　*<I>The house must be worth quite a lot of money now.</I><BR>　*<I>One of the pictures is worth £50,000.</I><BR>　*<I>Do you know <B>how much</B> the ring <B>is worth</B> ?</I><BR>　*<I>This art collection is <B>worth a fortune</B> (=worth a very large amount of money) .</I><BR><B>be worth nothing/not be worth anything</B><BR>　*<I>It's a very old machine so I shouldn't think it's worth anything.</I><BR><B>b)</B> to have money or possessions that have value<BR>　*<I>I've heard that he's worth over $2 million.</I><BR>　*<I>The man who founded the company must be <B>worth a fortune</B> .</I><BR>* <B>be worth (doing) sth</B><BR><B>a)</B> used to say that something is interesting, useful, or helpful<BR>　*<I>A lot of the small towns in the area are definitely worth visiting.</I><BR>　*<I>The film is <B>well worth</B> seeing.</I><BR><B>worth a trip/visit etc</B><BR>　*<I>The local museum is worth a visit.</I><BR><B>b)</B> used to say that someone should do something because they will gain something from it<BR><B>it is worth doing sth</B><BR>　*<I>It's worth checking the details of the contract before you sign it.</I><BR>　*<I> <B>It's well worth</B> getting there early if you want a good seat.</I><BR><B>be worth the time/effort/work</B><BR>　*<I>It was a great evening, and definitely worth all the hard work.</I><BR>* <B>be worth it</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>used to say that you gain something from an action<BR>　*<I>It was a lot of hard work, but <B>it was worth it</B> .</I><BR>* <B>be not worth it</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>used to say that you do not gain anything from an action<BR>　*<I>I thought about trying to talk to him about it, but decided <B>it wasn't worth it</B> .</I><BR>* <B>be worth sb's while (to do/doing sth)</B><BR><I>spoken</I> used to say that someone should spend time or money on something because they will gain something from it<BR>　*<I> <B>It might be worth</B> your <B>while</B> to talk to the head of department.</I><BR>　*<I>Some people feel it's not worth their while working if they can get money from the state.</I><BR>* <B>make it worth sb's while</B><BR><I>spoken</I> to offer something to someone so that they will do something for you<BR>　*<I>He promised to make it worth our while.</I><BR>* <B>what's it worth (to you)?</B><BR><I>spoken</I> used humorously to ask someone how they will reward you if you do something for them<BR>* <B>for what it's worth</B><BR><I>spoken</I> used when you are giving someone information, to say that you are not sure how useful it is<BR>　*<I>Here's the list of names, for what it's worth.</I><BR>* <B>for all you are/he is etc worth</B><BR>with as much effort as possible<BR>　*<I>He was pulling the rope for all he was worth.</I><BR>* <B>worth his/her salt</B><BR>doing their job well or deserving respect<BR>　*<I>Any player worth his salt would love to play for his country.</I>
<HR>
<B>GRAMMAR</B> <BR>Use <B>worth</B> followed by an amount to say how much money people would pay for something : <I>a necklace worth $10,000</I> <BR><B>!! Worth</B> is never a verb : <I>The house is worth (NOT The house worths) over a million pounds.</I> <BR><B>WORD CHOICE:worth, value</B> <BR><B>Worth</B> can be used as a noun to talk about how much money something is worth, but it is more usual to use <B>value</B> : <I>The value of the property has doubled. </I>| <I>The current value of the car is about £1,000.</I> <BR><B>Worth</B> and <B>value</B> can be used as nouns to talk about how good or useful someone or something is : <I>He has demonstrated his worth/value to the company.</I> 
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>worth</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">worth<SUP>2</SUP> <B>W3</B> <I>n</I> [U] <BR>[Language: Old English; Origin: weorth]<BR>* <B>ten pounds' worth/$500 worth etc of sth</B><BR>an amount of something worth ten pounds, $500 etc<BR>　*<I>a chance to win £2000 worth of computing equipment</I><BR>　*<I>The fire caused thousands of pounds' worth of damage.</I><BR>* <B>ten minutes' worth/a week's worth etc of sth</B><BR>something that takes ten minutes, a week etc to happen, do, or use<BR>　*<I>We had only three days' worth of food left.</I><BR>*how good or useful something is or how important it is to people<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/value"><U>value</U></A><BR>　*<I>The new computer system has already proved its worth.</I><BR>*how much money something is worth<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/value"><U>value</U></A><BR>　*<I>It is difficult to estimate the current worth of the company.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/benefit"><U>benefit</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/importance"><U>importance</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/merit"><U>merit</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/significance"><U>significance</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/usefulness"><U>usefulness</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/value"><U>value</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/weight"><U>weight</U></A></DIV></DIV>
