---
layout: post
title:  "Bitter"
categories: undefined
tag: good
word_excerpt: having a sharp strong taste like black coffee without sugar.
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">bit<B>·</B>ter<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W3S3</B> /ˈbɪtə US -ər/ <I>adj</I> <BR>[Language: Old English; Origin: biter]<BR>*feeling angry, jealous, and upset because you think you have been treated unfairly<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bitterly"><U>bitterly</U></A> <B>bitter about</B><BR>　*<I>I <B>feel</B> very <B>bitter</B> about what has happened.</I><BR>　*<I>a bitter and vindictive old man</I><BR>* [only before noun] <BR>making you feel very unhappy and upset<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bitterly"><U>bitterly</U></A><BR><B>a bitter disappointment/blow</B><BR>　*<I>If he failed, it would be a bitter disappointment to his parents.</I><BR>　*<I>His photo stirred up bitter memories.</I><BR><B>from bitter experience</B><BR>(=because of your own very unpleasant experiences)<BR>　*<I>She <B>knew from bitter experience</B> that it would be impossible to talk it over with Julian.</I><BR>*a bitter argument, battle etc is one in which people oppose or criticize each other with strong feelings of hate and anger<BR><B>bitter dispute/battle/struggle etc</B><BR>　*<I>The couple are locked in a bitter battle for custody of the children.</I><BR>　*<I>The government faces <B>bitter opposition</B> to these policies.</I><BR>　*<I>The countries are still <B>bitter enemies</B> .</I><BR>*having a sharp strong taste like black coffee without sugar<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/sweet"><U>sour; sweet</U></A><BR>　*<I>Enjoy the beer's <B>bitter taste</B> as you slowly drink it.</I><BR>　*<I>bitter chocolate</I><BR>*unpleasantly cold<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bitterly"><U>bitterly</U></A><BR>　*<I>a bitter wind</I><BR>　*<I>the <B>bitter cold</B> of the Midwestern winters</I><BR>* <B>to the bitter end</B><BR>continuing until the end, even though this is difficult<BR>　*<I>Employees have vowed to <B>fight</B> the closure <B>to the bitter end</B> .</I><BR>* <B>a bitter pill (to swallow)</B><BR>something very unpleasant that you must accept<BR>　*<I>The knowledge that his friends no longer trusted him was a bitter pill to swallow.</I><BR><B>&gt;bitterness</B> <I>n</I> [U]</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>bitter</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">bitter<SUP>2</SUP> <I>n</I> <BR>* [U and C] <I>BrE</I> <BR>a type of dark beer that is popular in Britain, or a glass of this<BR>　*<I>A pint of bitter, please.</I><BR>* <B>bitters</B>[U] <BR>a strong bitter liquid made from plants that is added to alcoholic drinks</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/distasteful"><U>distasteful</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/unpleasant"><U>unpleasant</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/sweet"><U>sweet</U></A></DIV></DIV>
