---
layout: post
title:  "Dispute"
categories: undefined
tag: fail
word_excerpt: The firm is involved in a legal dispute with a rival company.
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">dis<B>·</B>pute<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W2</B> /dɪˈspjuːt, ˈdɪspjuːt/ <I>n</I> [U and C] <BR>*a serious argument or disagreement<BR><B>dispute with</B><BR>　*<I>The firm <B>is involved in a</B> legal <B>dispute</B> with a rival company.</I><BR><B>dispute over</B><BR>　*<I>He <B>got into a dispute</B> over a taxi fare.</I><BR>　*<I>Every effort was made to <B>settle the dispute</B> , but without success.</I><BR><B>dispute between</B><BR>　*<I>the <B>bitter</B> border <B>dispute</B> between the countries</I><BR>　*<I>A long-running <B>pay dispute</B> is disrupting rail services.</I><BR>　*<I>The coal industry was plagued by <B>industrial disputes</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>The police don't usually like to intervene in <B>domestic disputes</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>The miners <B>were in dispute with</B> their employers over pay.</I><BR>　*<I> <B>A dispute arose</B> over who was to be the next king.</I><BR>* <B>be beyond dispute</B><BR>if something is beyond dispute, everyone agrees that it is true or that it really happened<BR>　*<I> <B>It is beyond dispute that</B> advances in medicine have enabled people to live longer.</I><BR>* <B>be open to dispute</B><BR>if something is open to dispute, it is not completely certain and not everyone agrees about it<BR>　*<I>His interpretation of the poem is open to dispute.</I><BR>* <B>be in dispute</B><BR>if something is in dispute, people are arguing about it<BR>　*<I>The facts of the case are still in dispute.</I>
<HR>
<B>COLLOCATES for sense 1</B> <BR><B>be involved in a dispute</B> <BR><B>get into a dispute</B> (=become involved) <BR><B>settle/resolve a dispute</B> <BR><B>bitter dispute</B> <BR><B>long-running dispute</B> (=one that lasts a long time) <BR><B>political/legal dispute</B> <BR><B>pay dispute</B> <BR><B>industrial dispute</B> <I>British English</I> <BR><B>labor dispute</B> <I>American English</I> (=between workers and employers) <BR><B>territorial dispute</B> (=about land) <BR><B>domestic dispute</B> (=between a couple who live together) <BR><B>be in dispute with somebody</B> (=be involved in a dispute) <BR><B>a dispute arises</B> (=it starts) 
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>dispute</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">dis<B>·</B>pute<SUP>2</SUP> /dɪˈspjuːt/ <I>v</I> <BR>[Date: 1500-1600; Language: Old French; Origin: desputer, from <I>Latin</I> disputare <I>'to discuss'</I>, from putare <I>'to think'</I>]<BR>* [T] <BR>to say that something such as a fact or idea is not correct or true<BR>　*<I>The main facts of the book have never been disputed.</I><BR><B>dispute that</B><BR>　*<I>Few would dispute that travel broadens the mind.</I><BR>* [I and T] <I>formal</I> <BR>to argue or disagree with someone<BR><B>dispute (sth) with sb</B><BR>　*<I>Hazlitt, though much younger, was soon disputing with Wordsworth on equal terms.</I><BR>　*<I>What happened next is <B>hotly disputed</B> .</I><BR>* [T] <BR>to try to get control of something or win something<BR>　*<I>Soviet forces disputed every inch of ground.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/argue"><U>argue</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bicker"><U>bicker</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/contest"><U>contest</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/debate"><U>debate</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fight"><U>fight</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/oppose"><U>oppose</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/quarrel"><U>quarrel</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/resist"><U>resist</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/agree"><U>agree</U></A></DIV></DIV>
