---
layout: post
title:  "Fit"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">fit<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W2S1</B> /fɪt/ <I>v past tense and past participle</I> <B>fitted</B> <I>also</I> <B>fit</B> <I>AmE present participle</I> <B>fitting</B> 
<HR>
<B>1【clothes】</B><BR><B>2【right size/shape】</B><BR><B>3【enough space】</B><BR><B>4【equipment/part】</B><BR><B>5【match/be suitable】</B><BR><B>6 fit somebody for something</B><BR><B>7 fit the bill</B><BR><B>8 if the cap fits (,wear it)</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>fit in</B><BR>　<B>fit into something</B><BR>　<B>fit somebody/something⇔out</B><BR>　<B>fit together</B><BR>　<B>fit somebody/something⇔up</B>
<HR>
*<B>【CLOTHES】</B><BR><B>a)</B> [I,T not in progressive] <BR>if a piece of clothing fits you, it is the right size for your body<BR>　*<I>His clothes did not <B>fit</B> him very <B>well</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>The uniform <B>fitted</B> her <B>perfectly</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>The jacket's fine, but the trousers don't fit.</I><BR>　*<I>I know this dress is going to <B>fit</B> you <B>like a glove</B> (=fit you very well) .</I><BR><B>b)</B> [T usually passive] <BR>to try a piece of clothing on someone to see if it is the right size for them, or to make sure a special piece of equipment is right for them<BR><B>fit sb for sth</B><BR>　*<I>I'm being fitted for a new suit tomorrow.</I><BR><B>fit sb with sth</B><BR>　*<I>He may need to be fitted with a hearing aid.</I><BR>*<B>【RIGHT SIZE/SHAPE】</B><BR><B>a)</B> [I and T] <BR>if something fits in a place, it is the right size or shape to go there<BR>　*<I>I couldn't find a key which fitted the lock.</I><BR>　*<I>Most cookers are designed to fit level with your worktops.</I><BR><B>fit in/into/under etc</B><BR>　*<I>The plastic cover fits neatly over the frame.</I><BR><B>fit together</B><BR>　*<I>All these bits of tubing are supposed to fit together.</I><BR><B>b)</B> [T always + adverb/preposition] <BR>to put something carefully into a place that is the right size or shape for it<BR>　*<I>She fitted the last piece into the jigsaw puzzle.</I><BR>*<B>【ENOUGH SPACE】</B> [I and T]<BR>if something fits into a place, there is enough space for it<BR>　*<I>I wanted to put the wardrobe behind the door, but I don't think it'll fit.</I><BR>　*<I>You might be able to fit some small flowering plants between the larger bushes.</I><BR><B>fit sth in/into sth</B><BR>　*<I>I don't think we'll be able to fit any more people into the car.</I><BR>　*<I>We should be able to fit one more in.</I><BR>*<B>【EQUIPMENT/PART】</B> [T]<BR>to put a piece of equipment into a place, or a new part onto a machine, so that it is ready to be used<BR><B>fit sth on/to etc sth</B><BR>　*<I>I need to fit a lock on the bathroom door.</I><BR>　*<I>Anti-theft devices are fitted to all our cars.</I><BR><B>be fitted with sth</B><BR>　*<I>The windows and doors are all fitted with security locks.</I><BR>*<B>【MATCH/BE SUITABLE】</B> [I and T]<BR>if something fits another thing, it is similar to it or suitable for it<BR>　*<I>The punishment should fit the crime.</I><BR>　*<I>Police said the car fits the description of the stolen vehicle.</I><BR>　*<I>Scientists often select facts to fit their theories.</I><BR>　*<I>He didn't fit the conventional image of a banker.</I><BR><B>fit with</B><BR>　*<I>The rhythm should fit with the meaning of a poem.</I><BR>* <B>fit sb for sth</B><BR><I>formal</I> to make someone suitable for something or able to do something<BR>　*<I>His natural authority fitted him for a senior position.</I><BR>* <B>fit the bill</B><BR>to be the type of person or thing that you want<BR>　*<I>We wanted an experienced sportscaster, and Waggoner fit the bill.</I><BR>* <B>if the cap fits (,wear it)</B><BR><I>BrE</I> <B>if the shoe fits (, wear it)</B> <I>AmE spoken</I> <BR>used to tell someone that you think a criticism of them is true<BR>　*<I>'So you think I'm a liar.' 'Well, if the cap fits...'</I><BR>→<B>sb's face doesn't fit</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/face"><U>face</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(20)<BR><B>fit in</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>*if someone fits in, they are accepted by the other people in a group<BR>　*<I>I never really fitted in at school.</I><BR><B>fit in with</B><BR>　*<I>I wasn't sure if she would fit in with my friends.</I><BR>* <B>fit sth/sb⇔in</B><BR>to manage to do something or see someone, even though you have a lot of other things to do<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/squeeze"><U>squeeze something/somebody⇔in</U></A><BR>　*<I>The doctor said he can fit me in at 4:30.</I><BR>　*<I>I wanted to fit in a swim before breakfast.</I><BR>*if something fits in with other things, it is similar to them or goes well with them<BR>　*<I>I don't know quite how this new course will fit in.</I><BR><B>fit in with</B><BR>　*<I>A new building must fit in with its surroundings.</I><BR>　*<I>You can't expect a baby to fit in with your existing routine.</I><BR><B>fit into</B> [fit into sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>*to be part of a group or system<BR>　*<I>Some of the patients we see do not fit neatly into any of the existing categories.</I><BR>　*<I>How does this fit into the company's overall marketing strategy?</I><BR>*to be accepted by the people in a group or organization<BR>　*<I>She fitted into the team very well.</I><BR><B>fit out</B> [fit sb/sth⇔out] <I>phr v</I><BR>to provide a person or place with the equipment, furniture, or clothes that they need<BR>　*<I>The office had been fitted out in style.</I><BR><B>fit somebody/something⇔out with</B><BR>　*<I>The new recruits were fitted out with uniforms and weapons.</I><BR><B>fit together</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>*if something fits together or you fit it together, different pieces can be joined to make something<BR>　*<I>Look, the tubes fit together like this.</I><BR><B>fit sth together</B><BR>　*<I>The pictures show you how to fit it together.</I><BR>*if a story, set of facts, set of ideas etc fit together, they make sense when considered together<BR>　*<I>Telecom and computer businesses fit together well.</I><BR><B>fit up</B> [fit sb/sth⇔up] <I>phr v</I><BR>*to provide a place with the furniture or equipment that it needs<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fit%20out"><U>fit something⇔out</U></A> <B>fit somebody/something⇔up with</B><BR>　*<I>The rooms are now fitted up with electric lights.</I><BR>* <I>informal</I> to make someone seem guilty of a crime when they are really not guilty<BR>　*<I>I knew that I had been fitted up.</I>
<HR>
<B>HINT sense 1</B> <BR>Use <B>fit</B> to say that clothes are not too big or too small. Use <B>suit</B> to say that clothes look attractive on someone <I>The dress fits, but it doesn't suit me.</I> 
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>fit</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">fit<SUP>2</SUP> <B>W3S2</B> <I>adj comparative</I> <B>fitter</B> <I>superlative</I> <B>fittest</B> 
<HR>
<B>1【strong】</B><BR><B>2【suitable】</B><BR><B>3 see/think fit (to do something)</B><BR><B>4 in a fit state (to do something)</B><BR><B>5 fit for a king</B><BR><B>6【attractive】</B><BR><B>7 fit to drop</B><BR><B>8 fit to burst</B><BR><B>9 fit to be tied</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1400-1500; Origin: Perhaps from <B>FIT<SUP>1</SUP></B>]<BR>*<B>【STRONG】</B><BR>someone who is fit is strong and healthy, especially because they exercise regularly<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/unfit"><U>unfit</U></A><BR>　*<I>You must be very fit if you do so much running.</I><BR>　*<I>He was young, good-looking, and <B>physically fit</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>I swim twice a week to try and <B>keep fit</B> .</I><BR><B>fit for</B><BR>　*<I>He may not be fit for Saturday's match.</I><BR><B>fit to do sth</B><BR>　*<I>I don't know if I'll be fit enough to take part in the race.</I><BR>　*<I>Psychiatrists said he was fit to stand trial (=he was mentally healthy enough) .</I><BR>　*<I>She's over eighty now, but still <B>as fit as a fiddle</B> (=very fit) .</I><BR><B>fighting fit</B><BR>(=very fit) <I>BrE</I><BR>　*<I>I had just come back from holiday and was fighting fit.</I><BR>*<B>【SUITABLE】</B><BR>suitable or good enough for something<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/unfit"><U>unfit</U></A> <B>fit for</B><BR>　*<I>We had to make sure the land was fit for drilling.</I><BR>　*<I>Some of the food was not fit for human consumption.</I><BR>　*<I>This book is not fit for publication!</I><BR><B>fit to do sth</B><BR>　*<I>He is not fit to govern this country!</I><BR>　*<I>This room is not fit to be seen!</I><BR>* <B>see/think fit (to do sth)</B><BR>to decide that something is the best thing to do, especially when other people do not agree with you<BR>　*<I>The government saw fit to ignore our advice.</I><BR>　*<I>Sort out the problem in any way you think fit.</I><BR>* <B>in a fit state (to do sth)</B><BR><I>especially BrE</I> healthy enough or in good enough condition for something<BR>　*<I>I was still very shocked and <B>in no fit state</B> to work.</I><BR>　*<I>We'll have to make sure the house is in a fit state to receive visitors.</I><BR>* <B>fit for a king</B><BR>of very good quality<BR>　*<I>The meal they provided was fit for a king.</I><BR>*<B>【ATTRACTIVE】</B><BR><I>BrE</I> sexually attractive<BR>* <B>fit to drop</B><BR><I>BrE informal</I> extremely tired<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/exhausted"><U>exhausted</U></A><BR>　*<I>It was getting late and most of us were fit to drop.</I><BR>* <B>fit to burst</B><BR><I>BrE informal</I> if you are laughing, shouting etc fit to burst, you are doing it a lot<BR>　*<I>The girls were laughing fit to burst.</I><BR>* <B>fit to be tied</B><BR><I>AmE</I> very angry, anxious, or upset<BR>　*<I>I was fit to be tied when she didn't come home until 2 a.m.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>fit</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">3</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">fit<SUP>3</SUP> <I>n</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【emotion】</B><BR><B>2【lose consciousness】</B><BR><B>3【laugh/cough】</B><BR><B>4 have/throw a fit</B><BR><B>5【right size】</B><BR><B>6【suitable】</B><BR><B>7 in/by fits and starts</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English; Origin: fitt <I>'disagreement, opposition, fighting'</I>]<BR>*<B>【EMOTION】</B> [C] <BR>a time when you feel an emotion very strongly and cannot control your behaviour<BR><B>fit of</B><BR>　*<I>She killed him in a fit of temper.</I><BR>　*<I>He quit his job in a fit of drunken depression.</I><BR>*<B>【LOSE CONSCIOUSNESS】</B> [C] <BR>a short period of time when someone loses consciousness and cannot control their body because their brain is not working properly<BR>　*<I>She used to <B>have fits</B> as a baby.</I><BR>　*<I>people who suffer from <B>epileptic fits</B> </I><BR>*<B>【LAUGH/COUGH】</B> [C] <BR>a short time during which you laugh or cough a lot in a way that you cannot control<BR>　*<I>He had a violent <B>coughing fit</B> .</I><BR><B>fit of</B><BR>　*<I>The girls collapsed into a fit of the giggles.</I><BR>　*<I>We were all <B>in fits of laughter</B> trying to clear up the mess.</I><BR>　*<I>Carl <B>had</B> us all <B>in fits</B> (=made us laugh a lot) with his stories.</I><BR>* <B>have/throw a fit</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to be very angry or shocked<BR>　*<I>If your mother finds out about this, she'll have a fit.</I><BR>*<B>【RIGHT SIZE】</B> [singular]<BR>the way in which something fits on your body or fits into a space<BR>　*<I>The dress was a <B>perfect fit</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>I managed to get everything into the suitcase, but it was a <B>tight fit</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【SUITABLE】</B> [singular] <I>formal</I><BR>if there is a fit between two things, they are similar to each other or are suitable for each other<BR><B>fit between</B><BR>　*<I>We must be sure that there's a fit between the needs of the children and the education they receive.</I><BR>* <B>in/by fits and starts</B><BR>if something happens in fits and starts, it does not happen smoothly, but keeps starting and then stopping again<BR>　*<I>Technology advances by fits and starts.</I><BR>　*<I>He spoke in fits and starts.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>fit</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">4</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">fit<SUP>4</SUP> <I>past tense and past participle</I> <B>fitted</B> <I>present participle</I> <B>fitting</B> <BR><I>v</I> [I] <I>BrE</I> <BR>to have a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/seizure"><U>seizure</U></A> (=a sudden condition in which someone cannot control the movements of their body) <BR>　*<I>The patient was still fitting.</I><BR><B>&gt;fitting</B> <I>n</I> [U] <BR>　*<I>Fitting continued for more than 5 minutes.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/adapt"><U>adapt</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/adjust"><U>adjust</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/attack"><U>attack</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/convulsion"><U>convulsion</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/frenzy"><U>frenzy</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/healthy"><U>healthy</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/proper"><U>proper</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/qualified"><U>qualified</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rage"><U>rage</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/right"><U>right</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/seizure"><U>seizure</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/spasm"><U>spasm</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/spell"><U>spell</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/strong"><U>strong</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/suit"><U>suit</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/suitable"><U>suitable</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/well"><U>well</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/unbecoming"><U>unbecoming</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/unfit"><U>unfit</U></A></DIV></DIV>
