---
layout: post
title:  "Charge"
categories: animal
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">charge<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W1S1</B> /tʃɑːdʒ US tʃɑːrdʒ/ <I>n</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【price】</B><BR><B>2【control】</B><BR><B>3【somebody/something you look after】</B><BR><B>4【crime】</B><BR><B>5【blame】</B><BR><B>6【attack】</B><BR><B>7【effort】</B><BR><B>8【electricity】</B><BR><B>9【explosive】</B><BR><B>10【strength of feelings】</B><BR><B>11 get a charge out of something</B><BR><B>12【an order to do something】</B>
<HR>
*<B>【PRICE】</B> [U and C]<BR>the amount of money you have to pay for goods or services<BR>　*<I>Gas charges will rise in July.</I><BR><B>charge of</B><BR>　*<I>an admission charge of $5</I><BR><B>charge for</B><BR>　*<I>There's a 50 pence booking charge for each ticket.</I><BR>　*<I>Guided tours are provided <B>at no charge</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>Your order will be sent <B>free of charge</B> (=at no cost) .</I><BR>　*<I>The shop will fit them for a small <B>extra charge</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【CONTROL】</B>[U]<BR>the position of having control or responsibility for a group of people or an activity<BR><B>in charge (of sth)</B><BR>　*<I>He asked to speak to the person in charge.</I><BR>　*<I>the officer in charge of the investigation</I><BR>　*<I>Stern <B>put</B> Travis <B>in charge of</B> (=gave him control of) the research team.</I><BR>　*<I>Owens came in and <B>took charge of</B> (=took control of) the situation.</I><BR>　*<I>A commander in each county was to <B>have charge of</B> the local militia.</I><BR>*<B>【SOMEBODY/SOMETHING YOU LOOK AFTER】</B><BR><B>a) be in/under sb's charge</B><BR>if someone or something is in your charge, you are responsible for looking after them<BR>　*<I>teachers that do their best for the children in their charge</I><BR>　*<I>The files were left in your charge.</I><BR><B>b)</B> [C] <I>formal</I> <BR>someone that you are responsible for looking after<BR>　*<I>Sarah bought some chocolate for her three young charges.</I><BR>*<B>【CRIME】</B> [C] <BR>an official statement made by the police saying that they believe someone may be guilty of a crime<BR><B>charge against</B><BR>　*<I>He was found guilty of all six charges against him.</I><BR>　*<I>Phillips was arrested on drug charges.</I><BR>　*<I>The following morning, he was arrested <B>on a charge of</B> burglary.</I><BR>　*<I>Young appeared in court <B>on a</B> murder <B>charge</B> .</I><BR><B>charge of</B><BR>　*<I>Higgins is <B>facing a charge</B> of armed robbery.</I><BR>　*<I>As it was his first offence, the store agreed not to <B>press charges</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>Police <B>dropped the charges</B> against him because of insufficient evidence.</I><BR>　*<I>Nine people have <B>pleaded guilty to</B> various <B>charges</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>Green was <B>cleared of</B> all <B>charges</B> against him.</I><BR>*<B>【BLAME】</B> [C] <BR>a written or spoken statement blaming someone for doing something bad or illegal<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/allegation"><U>allegation</U></A> <B>charge that</B><BR>　*<I>the charge that tobacco companies target young people with their ads</I><BR><B>charge of</B><BR>　*<I>a charge of racial discrimination against the company</I><BR><B>deny/counter a charge</B><BR>(=say that a charge is untrue)<BR>　*<I>Wallace denied charges that he had lied to investigators.</I><BR><B>lay/leave yourself open to a charge of sth</B><BR>(=be likely to be blamed for something)<BR>　*<I>The speech laid him open to charges of political bias.</I><BR>*<B>【ATTACK】</B> [C] <BR>an attack in which soldiers or animals move towards someone or something very quickly<BR>*<B>【EFFORT】</B><BR><B>lead the charge</B><BR>to make a strong effort to do something<BR>　*<I>It was small businesses that led the charge against health care changes.</I><BR>*<B>【ELECTRICITY】</B>[U]<BR>electricity that is put into a piece of electrical equipment such as a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/battery"><U>battery</U></A><BR><B>on charge</B><BR>(=taking in a charge of electricity)<BR>　*<I>Leave the battery on charge all night.</I><BR>*<B>【EXPLOSIVE】</B> [C] <BR>an explosive put into something such as a bomb or gun<BR>*<B>【STRENGTH OF FEELINGS】</B> [singular]<BR>the power of strong feelings<BR>　*<I>Cases of child abuse have a strong emotional charge.</I><BR>* <B>get a charge out of sth</B><BR><I>AmE spoken</I> to be excited by something and enjoy it very much<BR>　*<I>I got a real charge out of seeing my niece take her first steps.</I><BR>*<B>【AN ORDER TO DO SOMETHING】</B> [C] <I>formal</I> <BR>an order to do something<BR><B>charge to do sth</B><BR>　*<I>The old servant fulfilled his master's charge to care for the children.</I><BR>→<B>reverse the charges</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/reverse"><U>reverse</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(6)
<HR>
<B>COLLOCATES for sense 4</B> <BR><B>on a charge (of something)</B> <BR><B>bring/press charges</B> (=state officially that someone is guilty of a crime) <BR><B>face charges</B> (=be accused of a crime) <BR><B>drop the charges</B> (=decide to stop making charges) <BR><B>deny a charge</B> <BR><B>admit a charge</B> <BR><B>plead guilty to a charge</B> <BR><B>be released without charge</B> <BR><B>be cleared/acquitted of a charge</B> (=when someone is officially not guilty at the end of a trial) <BR><B>be convicted of a charge</B> (=when someone is found guilty at the end of a trial) 
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>charge</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">charge<SUP>2</SUP> <B>W2S1</B> <I>v</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【money】</B><BR><B>2【crime】</B><BR><B>3【blame somebody】</B><BR><B>4【run】</B><BR><B>5【attack】</B><BR><B>6【electricity】</B><BR><B>7【order somebody】</B><BR><B>8【gun】</B><BR><B>9【glass】</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1100-1200; Language: Old French; Origin: chargier, from <I>Late Latin</I> carricare, from <I>Latin</I> carrus; <B>CAR</B>]<BR>*<B>【MONEY】</B><BR><B>a)</B> [I and T] <BR>to ask someone for a particular amount of money for something you are selling<BR>　*<I>The hotel charges $125 a night.</I><BR><B>charge sb £10/$50 etc (for sth)</B><BR>　*<I>The restaurant charged us £40 for the wine.</I><BR><B>charge sth at sth</B><BR>　*<I>Calls will be charged at 44p per minute.</I><BR><B>charge for</B><BR>　*<I>We won't charge for delivery if you pay now.</I><BR><B>charge rent/a fee/interest etc</B><BR>　*<I>The gallery charges an entrance fee.</I><BR><B>b) charge sth to sb's account/room etc</B><BR>to record the cost of something on someone's account, so that they can pay for it later<BR>　*<I>Wilson charged the drinks to his room.</I><BR>　*<I>Use a courier and charge it to the department.</I><BR><B>c)</B> [T] <I>AmE</I> <BR>to pay for something with a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/credit%20card"><U>credit card</U></A><BR><B>charge sth on sth</B><BR>　*<I>I charged the shoes on Visa.</I><BR>　*<I>'How would you like to pay?' 'I'll <B>charge it</B> .'</I><BR>*<B>【CRIME】</B> [T]<BR>to state officially that someone may be guilty of a crime<BR><B>charge sb with sth</B><BR>　*<I>Gibbons has been charged with murder.</I><BR>*<B>【BLAME SOMEBODY】</B> [T] <I>formal</I><BR>to say publicly that you think someone has done something wrong<BR><B>charge that</B><BR>　*<I>Demonstrators have charged that the police used excessive force against them.</I><BR>*<B>【RUN】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to deliberately run or walk somewhere quickly<BR><B>charge around/through/out etc</B><BR>　*<I>The boys charged noisily into the water.</I><BR>*<B>【ATTACK】</B> [I and T]<BR>to deliberately rush quickly towards someone or something in order to attack them<BR>　*<I>Then, with a final effort, our men charged the enemy for the last time.</I><BR><B>charge at/towards/into</B><BR>　*<I>The bear charged towards her at full speed.</I><BR>*<B>【ELECTRICITY】</B> [I and T]<BR><I>also</I> <B>charge up</B> <BR>if a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/battery"><U>battery</U></A> charges, or if you charge it, it takes in and stores electricity<BR>　*<I>The shaver can be charged up and used while travelling.</I><BR>*<B>【ORDER SOMEBODY】</B> [T] <I>formal</I><BR>to order someone to do something or make them responsible for it<BR><B>charge sb with doing sth</B><BR>　*<I>The commission is charged with investigating war crimes.</I><BR>*<B>【GUN】</B> [T]<BR><I>old use</I> to load a gun<BR>*<B>【GLASS】</B> [T]<BR><I>BrE formal</I> to fill a glass<BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/charged"><U>charged</U></A></B></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/accuse"><U>accuse</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/attack"><U>attack</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bid"><U>bid</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/blame"><U>blame</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/command"><U>command</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/complain"><U>complain</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/denounce"><U>denounce</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/direct"><U>direct</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fill"><U>fill</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/impeach"><U>impeach</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/indict"><U>indict</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/load"><U>load</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/order"><U>order</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rate"><U>rate</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rush%20at"><U>rush at</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/stuff"><U>stuff</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/discharge"><U>discharge</U></A></DIV></DIV>
