---
layout: post
title:  "Conduct"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">con<B>·</B>duct<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W2S3</B> /kənˈdʌkt/ <I>v</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【carry out】</B><BR><B>2【music】</B><BR><B>3【behave】</B><BR><B>4【electricity/heat】</B><BR><B>5【show somebody something】</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1400-1500; Language: Latin; Origin: conductus, past participle of conducere; <B>CONDUCE</B>]<BR>*<B>【CARRY OUT】</B> [T]<BR>to carry out a particular activity or process, especially in order to get information or prove facts<BR><B>conduct a survey/investigation/review etc</B><BR>　*<I>We are conducting a survey of consumer attitudes towards organic food.</I><BR><B>conduct an experiment/a test</B><BR>　*<I>Is it really necessary to conduct experiments on animals?</I><BR><B>conduct a campaign</B><BR>　*<I>They conducted a campaign of bombings and assassinations.</I><BR><B>conduct an interview</B><BR>　*<I>The interview was conducted in English.</I><BR>　*<I>The memorial service was conducted by the Rev. David Prior.</I><BR>　*<I>It was the first time that I had conducted business in Brazil.</I><BR>*<B>【MUSIC】</B> [I and T]<BR>to stand in front of a group of musicians or singers and direct their playing or singing<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/conductor"><U>conductor</U></A><BR><B>conduct an orchestra/choir</B><BR>　*<I>The orchestra is conducted by John Williams.</I><BR>　*<I>Who will be conducting?</I><BR>*<B>【BEHAVE】</B><BR><B>conduct yourself</B><BR><I>formal</I> to behave in a particular way, especially in a situation where people judge you by the way you behave<BR>　*<I>He was a player who always conducted himself impeccably, both on and off the field.</I><BR>*<B>【ELECTRICITY/HEAT】</B> [T]<BR>if something conducts electricity or heat, it allows electricity or heat to travel along or through it<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/conductor"><U>conductor</U></A><BR>　*<I>Aluminium, being a metal, readily <B>conducts heat</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【SHOW SOMEBODY SOMETHING】</B> [T always + adverb/preposition] <I>formal</I><BR>to take or lead someone somewhere<BR><B>conduct sb to sth</B><BR>　*<I>On arrival, I was conducted to the commandant's office.</I><BR><B>conducted tour (of sth)</B><BR>(=a tour of a building, city, or area with someone who tells you about that place)<BR>　*<I>a conducted tour of Berlin</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>conduct</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">con<B>·</B>duct<SUP>2</SUP> <B>W3</B> /ˈkɔndʌkt US ˈkɑːn-/ <I>n</I> [U] <I>formal</I> <BR>*the way someone behaves, especially in public, in their job etc<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/behaviour"><U>behaviour</U></A><BR>　*<I>The Senator's conduct is being investigated by the Ethics Committee.</I><BR>　*<I>an inquiry into the conduct of the police</I><BR><B>ethical/professional etc conduct</B><BR>　*<I>the Law Society's Code of Professional Conduct</I><BR><B>improper/violent/offensive etc conduct</B><BR>　*<I>He was arrested for <B>disorderly conduct</B> (=noisy violent behaviour) .</I><BR>* <B>conduct of sth</B><BR>the way in which an activity is organized and carried out<BR>　*<I>complaints about the conduct of the elections</I><BR>　*<I>Disclosure of information would compromise the proper conduct of the investigation.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/action"><U>action</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/behavior"><U>behavior</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/direct"><U>direct</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/guide"><U>guide</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/lead"><U>lead</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/manage"><U>manage</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/manner"><U>manner</U></A></DIV></DIV>
