---
layout: post
title:  "Regret"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">re<B>·</B>gret<SUP>1</SUP> /rɪˈgret/ <I>v past tense and past participle</I> <B>regretted</B> <I>present participle</I> <B>regretting</B> [T]<BR><BR>[Date: 1400-1500; Language: Old French; Origin: regreter]<BR>*to feel sorry about something you have done and wish you had not done it<BR>　*<I>I've never regretted the decision.</I><BR>　*<I>Don't do anything you might regret.</I><BR><B>regret doing sth</B><BR>　*<I>I now regret leaving school so young.</I><BR><B>regret (that)</B><BR>　*<I>He was beginning to regret that he'd come along.</I><BR><B>bitterly/deeply/greatly regret</B><BR>　*<I>It was a stupid thing to do and I bitterly regret it.</I><BR>　*<I>If we don't act now, we'll <B>live to regret it</B> (=we'll regret it in the future) .</I><BR>* [not in progressive] <I>formal</I> <BR>used in official letters or statements when saying that you are sorry or sad about something<BR>　*<I>We regret any inconvenience caused to our customers.</I><BR><B>regret (that)</B><BR>　*<I>I regret that I will be unable to attend.</I><BR><B>regret to say/inform/tell</B><BR>　*<I>I regret to inform you that your contract will not be renewed.</I>
<HR>
<B>WORD CHOICE: regret, be sorry</B> <BR><B>Regret</B> is very formal when it is used to apologize : <I>I deeply regret causing you offence.</I> <BR>It is more usual to say you <B>are sorry</B> : <I>I'm sorry if I hurt your feelings.</I> <BR>If you <B>regret</B> doing something, you wish you had not done it : <I>Do you regret resigning from your job? </I>| <I>I asked him to join us, then regretted it. </I><BR>You can say you <B>are sorry</B> about something that you wish you had not done, or something that is not your fault : <I>I was sorry that she decided not to come back.</I> <BR>You can say that you <B>are sorry to</B> say something or <B>regret to</B> say something before giving bad news : <I>I am sorry to tell you that you failed the test.</I> |<I>We regret to inform you that no trains will run today.</I> 
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>regret</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">regret<SUP>2</SUP> <I>n</I> <BR>* [C usually plural, U] <BR>sadness that you feel about something, especially because you wish it had not happened<BR><B>regret about</B><BR>　*<I>I <B>have</B> no <B>regrets</B> about leaving.</I><BR><B>great/deep regret</B><BR>　*<I>She has already <B>expressed</B> deep <B>regret</B> for what happened.</I><BR><B>with regret</B><BR>　*<I>I decided with some regret that it was time to move on.</I><BR>　*<I>It is <B>with great regret</B> that I must decline your offer.</I><BR><B>to sb's regret</B><BR>　*<I>I lost touch with her, much to my regret.</I><BR>* <B>give/send your regrets</B><BR><I>formal</I> to say that you are unable to go to a meeting, accept an invitation etc<BR>　*<I>My father was ill and had to send his regrets.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/be%20sorry%20for"><U>be sorry for</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bemoan"><U>bemoan</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bewail"><U>bewail</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rue"><U>rue</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/content"><U>content</U></A></DIV></DIV>
