---
layout: post
title:  "Rather"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">ra<B>·</B>ther<BR><B>W1S1</B> /ˈrɑːðə US ˈræðər/ <I>predeterminer, adv</I> <BR>[Language: Old English; Origin: hrathor <I>'more quickly'</I>]<BR>*fairly or to some degree<BR>　*<I>I was rather surprised to see him with his ex-wife.</I><BR>　*<I>He was limping rather badly.</I><BR>　*<I>My own position is <B>rather different</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>Abigail's always been <B>rather a</B> difficult child. <I>BrE</I></I><BR>　*<I>Isn't it rather late (=a little too late) to start changing all the arrangements?</I><BR>　*<I>Actually I <B>rather like</B> the new style of architecture. <I>BrE</I></I><BR>　*<I>It was a nice house, but <B>rather too</B> small for a family of four. <I>BrE</I></I><BR>　*<I>The task proved to be <B>rather more</B> difficult than I had expected. <I>BrE</I></I><BR>* <B>would rather</B><BR>used to say that you would prefer to do or have something<BR>　*<I>I'd rather have a quiet night in front of the TV.</I><BR>　*<I>We could eat later if you would rather do that.</I><BR>　*<I>'I think you'd better ask her.' ' <B>I'd rather not</B> (=I do not want to) .'</I><BR><B>would rather ... than ...</B><BR>　*<I>I'd rather die than apologize to Helen.</I><BR>　*<I>I'd rather you didn't go out alone (=I do not want you to go) .</I><BR>* <B>rather than</B><BR>instead of<BR>　*<I>I think you'd call it a lecture rather than a talk.</I><BR>　*<I>Rather than go straight on to university why not get some work experience first?</I><BR>　*<I>Bryson decided to quit rather than accept the new rules.</I><BR>* <B>or rather</B><BR>used before correcting something that you have said, or giving more specific information<BR>　*<I>We all went in Vic's car, or rather his father's.</I><BR>* <B>not ... but rather ...</B><BR>used to say that one thing is not true but a different thing is true<BR>　*<I>The problem is not their lack of funding, but rather their lack of planning.</I><BR>* <B>rather you/him/her/them than me</B><BR><I>spoken</I> used to say that you are glad that you are not going to be doing something that someone else will be doing<BR>* <B>Rather!</B><BR><I>BrE spoken old-fashioned</I> used to agree with someone
<HR>
<B>WORD CHOICE: rather, fairly, quite, pretty</B> <BR><B>Rather, fairly, quite,</B> and <B>pretty</B> are all used to say that something is true to some degree, but not completely or extremely : <I>She's rather shy. </I>| <I>You should find the test fairly easy.</I> | <I>It took quite a long time (NOT a quite long time).</I> |<I>His English is pretty good.</I> <BR><B>Rather</B> is fairly formal but can be used in spoken English, especially British English. In American English it is more usual to use <B>pretty</B> . In both American and British English, <B>pretty</B> is more usual in speech than in writing. <BR><B>Quite</B> can also be used in front of an adjective or adverb, and in British English a verb, to mean 'completely'. This is a fairly formal use : <I>You are quite wrong. </I>|<I>I quite understand your feelings.</I> 
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/instead"><U>instead</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/kind%20of"><U>kind of</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/kinda"><U>kinda</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/preferably"><U>preferably</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/quite"><U>quite</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/sooner"><U>sooner</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/sort%20of"><U>sort of</U></A></DIV></DIV>
