---
layout: post
title:  "Mention"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">men<B>·</B>tion<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W1S1</B> /ˈmenʃən/ <I>v</I> [T] <BR>*to talk or write about something or someone, usually quickly and without saying very much or giving details<BR>　*<I>Was my name mentioned at all?</I><BR>　*<I>Some of the problems were mentioned in his report.</I><BR><B>mention sth to sb</B><BR>　*<I>I mentioned the idea to Joan, and she seemed to like it.</I><BR><B>mention (that)</B><BR>　*<I>He mentioned that he was having problems, but he didn't explain.</I><BR>　*<I> <B>It's worth mentioning</B> (=it is important enough to mention) that they only studied a very small number of cases.</I><BR>　*<I> <B>As</B> I <B>mentioned earlier</B> , there have been a lot of changes recently.</I><BR>　*<I>She <B>mentioned in passing</B> (=mentioned in a quick unimportant way) that you had just been to Rome.</I><BR><B>now you mention it</B><BR>(=used to say that you had not thought about something until the speaker mentioned it)<BR>　*<I>Now you mention it, I haven't seen her around lately.</I><BR><B>fail/omit/neglect to mention sth</B><BR>(=not mention something you should mention)<BR>　*<I>The report failed to mention that most of the landowners do not live on their properties.</I><BR>* <B>don't mention it</B><BR><I>spoken</I> used to say politely that there is no need for someone to thank you for helping them<BR>　*<I>'Thanks for the ride home!' 'Don't mention it.'</I><BR>* <B>not to mention sth</B><BR>used to introduce an additional thing that makes a situation even more difficult, surprising, interesting etc<BR>　*<I>Pollution has a negative effect on the health of everyone living in the city, not to mention the damage to the environment.</I><BR>　*<I>It's too far to walk, <B>not to mention the fact that</B> it'll probably be closed by now anyway.</I><BR>* <B>be mentioned in dispatches</B><BR><I>BrE</I> to have your name on an official list of people who have been brave in battle, as an honour
<HR>
<B>HINT sense 1</B> <BR>Do not say 'mention about' something. <B>Mention</B> is followed by a direct object: <I>She didn't mention her mother.</I> 
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>mention</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">mention<SUP>2</SUP> <I>n</I> [C usually singular, U] <BR>[Date: 1300-1400; Language: Old French; Origin: <I>Latin</I> mentio, from mens <I>'mind'</I>]<BR>when someone mentions something or someone in a conversation, piece of writing etc<BR><B>mention of</B><BR>　*<I>He <B>made no mention</B> of his wife's illness.</I><BR><B>at the mention of sth</B><BR>　*<I>At the mention of a trip to the seaside, the children got very excited.</I><BR>　*<I>They all <B>get a mention</B> (=they are all mentioned) in the book.</I><BR><B>deserve/merit (a) mention</B><BR>　*<I>There is one other person who deserves <B>special mention</B> (=is especially worth mentioning for something they have done) .</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/honourable%20mention"><U>honourable mention</U></A></B></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/comment"><U>comment</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/designate"><U>designate</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/name"><U>name</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/note"><U>note</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/observe"><U>observe</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/remark"><U>remark</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/say"><U>say</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/specify"><U>specify</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/state"><U>state</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/stipulate"><U>stipulate</U></A></DIV></DIV>
