---
layout: post
title:  "Round"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">round<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W2S2</B> /raund/ <I>adv, prep especially BrE also</I> <B>around</B><BR>*surrounding or on all sides of something or someone<BR>　*<I>We sat round the table playing cards.</I><BR>　*<I>Gather round! I have an important announcement to make.</I><BR>　*<I>He put his arm gently round her waist.</I><BR>　*<I>I kept the key on a chain round my neck.</I><BR>　*<I>The ballroom's huge, with windows <B>all the way round</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>There was a lovely courtyard with tables <B>all round</B> .</I><BR>*used to say that someone or something turns so that they face in the opposite direction<BR>　*<I>When he turned round I recognised him immediately.</I><BR>　*<I>Graham glanced round, startled by the voice behind him.</I><BR>*in or to many places or parts of an area<BR>　*<I>Reggie went round making sure all the lights were off.</I><BR>　*<I>Leah showed me round on my first day at the office.</I><BR>　*<I>A guide took us round the palace and gardens.</I><BR>　*<I>He spent a whole year travelling round Europe.</I><BR>　*<I>She looked round the room as though leaving it for the last time.</I><BR>　*<I>changes that are affecting the weather <B>all round</B> the world</I><BR>*moving in a circle<BR>　*<I>She watched the clock hands go round.</I><BR>　*<I>An aeroplane was circling round far overhead.</I><BR>　*<I>Until the 16th century people believed that the sun went round the earth.</I><BR>　*<I>He stared at the washing machine, just watching the clothes go <B>round and round</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>a shoal of tiny fish swimming <B>round in circles</B> </I><BR>* <I>informal</I> if you go round to someone's house, you go to their house, usually to visit them<BR>　*<I>I might go round to Nigel's this evening.</I><BR>　*<I>He's invited us round for dinner.</I><BR>　*<I>We'll be round (=will arrive) at seven.</I><BR>*to other people or positions<BR>　*<I>A big box of chocolates was handed round.</I><BR>　*<I>He'd moved his furniture round.</I><BR>*on the other side of something, or to the other side of it without going through it or over it<BR>　*<I>He ran round to open Kate's door for her.</I><BR>　*<I>There must be another entrance round the back.</I><BR>　*<I>I watched the two boys disappear <B>round the corner</B> .</I><BR><B>round to</B><BR>　*<I>She came round to his side of the desk.</I><BR>*in the area near a particular place<BR>　*<I>Much of the countryside round Hinkley Point is given over to agriculture.</I><BR>　*<I>Do you live <B>round here</B> ?</I><BR>　*<I>He owned all the land <B>round about</B> (=in the surrounding area) .</I><BR>* <B>round about</B><BR><I>spoken informal also</I> <B>round</B> <BR>used when guessing a number, amount, time etc without being exact<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/approximately"><U>approximately</U></A><BR>　*<I>We got there round about half past nine.</I><BR>　*<I>He's round about the same age as my son.</I><BR>　*<I>It must have been round midnight when I saw him.</I><BR>*used to show that someone spends time in a place without doing anything useful<BR>　*<I>People were just standing round and not doing anything to help.</I><BR>*if something is organized round a particular person or thing, it is organized according to their needs, wishes, ideas etc<BR>　*<I>Working from home, she could arrange her hours round her children.</I><BR>　*<I>He had built his whole existence round her.</I><BR>*a way round a difficult situation or problem is a way to solve it or avoid it<BR>　*<I>She's going to have to buy a car. I can't see any other way round it.</I><BR>　*<I>strategies to <B>get round</B> (=solve) the <B>problem</B> </I><BR>*used to show the length of a line surrounding something<BR>　*<I>The park was about five miles round.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/all%20round"><U>all round</U></A></B><BR>→<B>go round in circles</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/circle"><U>circle</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(5)<BR>→<B>(a)round the clock</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/clock"><U>clock</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(2)<BR>→<B>(just) around/round the corner</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/corner"><U>corner</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(9)<BR>→<B>first/second time round</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/time"><U>time</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(3)<BR>→<B>way round</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/way"><U>way</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(24)</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>round</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">round<SUP>2</SUP> <B>W2S1</B> <I>adj</I> <BR>[Date: 1200-1300; Language: Old French; Origin: roont, from <I>Latin</I> rotundus]<BR>*shaped like a circle<BR>　*<I>a big round table</I><BR>　*<I>Jamie's eyes grew round with delight.</I><BR>*shaped like a ball<BR>　*<I>small round berries</I><BR>*fat and curved<BR>　*<I>round chubby cheeks</I><BR>* [only before noun] <BR>a round number or figure is a whole number, often ending in 0<BR>　*<I>Let's make it a round figure: say £50?</I><BR><B>in round figures</B><BR>(=expressed as the nearest 10, 100, 1000 etc)<BR>　*<I>Altogether, in round figures, there are about three thousand students here.</I><BR><B>a round hundred/dozen etc</B><BR>(=a complete hundred etc) <BR>→<B>a square peg in a round hole</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/square"><U>square</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(12)<BR><B>&gt;roundness</B> <I>n</I> [U]</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>round</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">3</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">round<SUP>3</SUP> <I>n</I> [C] 
<HR>
<B>1【series】</B><BR><B>2【competition】</B><BR><B>3【regular activities】</B><BR><B>4【visits】</B><BR><B>5 round of applause</B><BR><B>6【golf】</B><BR><B>7【boxing/wrestling】</B><BR><B>8【drinks】</B><BR><B>9 do the rounds</B><BR><B>10 do the rounds of something</B><BR><B>11【gun shot】</B><BR><B>12【circle】</B><BR><B>13【food/newspapers/letters etc】</B><BR><B>14【song】</B><BR><B>15 round of sandwiches</B><BR><B>16 round of toast</B><BR><B>17 in the round</B>
<HR>
*<B>【SERIES】</B><BR>a round of events is a series of related events, which are part of a longer process<BR><B>round of</B><BR>　*<I>a third round of peace talks</I><BR>　*<I>the Government's latest round of expenditure cuts</I><BR>*<B>【COMPETITION】</B><BR>one of the parts of a competition that you have to finish or win before you can go on to the next part<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/heat"><U>heat</U></A>, stage <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/stage"><U>stage</U></A><BR><B>the first/final/next/qualifying etc round</B><BR>　*<I>I got beaten in the first round.</I><BR>　*<I>Two of their candidates made it through to the next round.</I><BR><B>round of</B><BR>　*<I>the final round of the championship</I><BR>*<B>【REGULAR ACTIVITIES】</B><BR><B>round of sth</B><BR>a round of activities is a regular series of activities, especially activities that are not very exciting<BR>　*<I>an <B>endless round</B> of meetings and interviews</I><BR>　*<I>He continued with his <B>usual round</B> of private and business engagements.</I><BR>　*<I>the <B>daily round</B> of commuting and shopping</I><BR>*<B>【VISITS】</B><BR><B>rounds</B> [plural] <BR>the usual visits that someone, especially a doctor, regularly makes as part of their job<BR><B>be (out) on your rounds</B><BR>　*<I>I'm sorry. The doctor is out on her rounds.</I><BR>* <B>round of applause</B><BR>when people <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/clap"><U>clap</U></A> for a short time to show that they enjoyed something or approve of something<BR>　*<I>She <B>got</B> a big <B>round of applause</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>The passengers <B>gave</B> the pilot a <B>round of applause</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【GOLF】</B><BR>a complete game of golf<BR>　*<I>I <B>played a round of golf</B> on Sunday morning.</I><BR>*<B>【BOXING/WRESTLING】</B><BR>one of the periods of fighting in a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/boxing"><U>boxing</U></A> or <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/wrestling"><U>wrestling</U></A> match<BR>*<B>【DRINKS】</B><BR>if you buy a round of drinks in a bar, you buy drinks for all the people in your group<BR><B>it's my/your etc round</B><BR>(=used to say whose turn it is to buy drinks for all the people in your group)<BR>　*<I>What are you having? It's my round.</I><BR>* <B>do the rounds</B><BR><I>BrE informal</I> <B>make the rounds</B> <I>AmE also</I> <B>go the rounds</B> <I>BrE</I> <BR>if a story, idea, or illness does the rounds, it is passed on from one person to another<BR>　*<I>a joke doing the rounds</I><BR>* <B>do the rounds of sth</B><BR><I>BrE</I> <B>make the rounds of sth</B> <I>AmE</I> <BR>to go around from one place to another, especially looking for work or advertising something<BR>　*<I>Ryan is making the rounds of talk shows to promote her new movie.</I><BR>*<B>【GUN SHOT】</B><BR>a single shot from a gun, or a bullet for one shot<BR>　*<I>I've only got ten <B>rounds of ammunition</B> left.</I><BR>　*<I>Richards <B>fired</B> a few <B>rounds</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【CIRCLE】</B><BR>something that has a circular shape<BR>　*<I>Slice the potatoes into rounds.</I><BR>*<B>【FOOD/NEWSPAPERS/LETTERS ETC】</B><BR><I>BrE</I> a regular visit to a number of houses, offices etc to deliver or sell things<BR><B>paper/milk round</B><BR>(=a job in which you deliver newspapers, milk etc to people's houses)<BR>　*<I>I used to <B>do</B> a paper <B>round</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【SONG】</B><BR>a song for three or four singers, in which each one sings the same tune, starting at a different time<BR>* <B>round of sandwiches</B><BR><I>BrE</I> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/sandwich"><U>sandwiches</U></A> made from two whole pieces of bread<BR>* <B>round of toast</B><BR><I>BrE</I> one whole piece of bread that has been <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/toast"><U>toasted</U></A><BR>* <B>in the round</B><BR>a play that is performed in the round is performed on a central stage surrounded by the people watching it</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>round</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">4</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">round<SUP>4</SUP> <I>v</I> <BR>* [T] <BR>to go round something such as a bend or the corner of a building<BR>　*<I>As they <B>rounded</B> the <B>bend</B> and came in sight of the river, Philip took her hand.</I><BR>　*<I>The tide was coming in as he rounded the rocks.</I><BR>* [T] <BR>to make something into a round shape<BR>　*<I>The stones were then rounded, polished and engraved.</I><BR>* [I] <I>written</I> <BR>if your eyes round, you open them wide because you are shocked, frightened etc<BR>　*<I>Barbara's eyes rounded in surprise.</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rounded"><U>rounded</U></A>, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/well-rounded"><U>well-rounded</U></A></B><BR><B>round down</B> [round sth⇔down] <I>phr v</I><BR>to reduce an exact figure to the nearest whole number<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/round%20up"><U>round up</U></A><BR>　*<I>For the 1841 census it was decided to round down ages over fifteen to the nearest five.</I><BR><B>round off</B> [round sth⇔off] <I>phr v</I><BR>*to do something as a way of ending an event, performance etc in a suitable or satisfactory way<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/finish"><U>finish</U></A> <B>round something⇔off with</B><BR>　*<I>You can round off the evening with a visit to the nightclub.</I><BR>　*<I>She rounded off the meal with some cheese.</I><BR>　*<I>It was the perfect way to round off the season.</I><BR>*to take the sharp or rough edges off something<BR>　*<I>Round off the corners with a pair of scissors.</I><BR>*to change an exact figure to the nearest whole number<BR><B>round something⇔off to</B><BR>　*<I>Prices are rounded off to the nearest dollar.</I><BR><B>round on</B> [round on sb] <I>phr v</I><BR>to suddenly turn and attack someone when they do not expect it, either with words or physically<BR>　*<I>When the door closed, Crabb rounded on Edwards. 'You stupid idiot!'</I><BR><B>round out</B> [round sth⇔out] <I>phr v</I><BR>to make an experience more thorough or complete<BR>　*<I>African percussion and Native American flute round out the show.</I><BR><B>round up</B> [round sb/sth⇔up] <I>phr v</I><BR>*if police or soldiers round up a particular group of people, they find them and force them to go to prison<BR>　*<I>Thousands of men were rounded up and jailed.</I><BR>*to find and gather together a group of people, animals, or things<BR>　*<I>See if you can round up a few friends to help you!</I><BR>　*<I>His dog Nell started to round up the sheep.</I><BR>*to increase an exact figure to the next highest whole number<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/round%20down"><U>round down</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/circular"><U>circular</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/globular"><U>globular</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rotund"><U>rotund</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/spherical"><U>spherical</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/across"><U>across</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/square"><U>square</U></A></DIV></DIV>
