---
layout: post
title:  "Cause"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">cause<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W1S2</B> /kɔːz US kɔːz/ <I>n</I> <BR>[Date: 1200-1300; Language: Old French; Origin: <I>Latin</I> causa]<BR>* [C] <BR>a person, event, or thing that makes something happen<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/effect"><U>effect</U></A> <B>cause of</B><BR>　*<I>Breast cancer is the leading <B>cause of death</B> for American women in their forties.</I><BR><B>establish/investigate/discover etc the cause</B><BR>　*<I>It's our job to establish the cause of the fire.</I><BR><B>root/underlying etc cause</B><BR>　*<I>The cost of the project was enormous, but it was not the fundamental cause of its failure.</I><BR><B>cause and effect</B><BR>(=the idea that one thing directly causes another) <BR><B>die of/from natural causes</B><BR>(=because of old age or an illness, not an accident, murder etc) <BR>*[U] <BR>a fact that makes it right or reasonable for you to feel or behave in a particular way<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/reason"><U>reason</U></A> <B>cause for</B><BR>　*<I>There is <B>no cause for alarm</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>The patient's condition is <B>giving cause for concern</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>The present political climate <B>gives</B> little <B>cause for optimism</B> .</I><BR><B>have (good) cause to do sth</B><BR>　*<I>His father has good cause to be proud of him.</I><BR><B>with/without good cause</B><BR>　*<I>Many people are worried about the economy, and with good cause.</I><BR>* [C] <BR>an organization, belief, or aim that a group of people support or fight for<BR><B>cause of</B><BR>　*<I>her lifelong devotion to the cause of women's rights</I><BR><B>Nationalist/Republican etc cause</B><BR><B>champion/further a cause</B><BR>　*<I>Since founding Island Records, Blackwell has championed the cause of Jamaican music.</I><BR><B>worthy/good cause</B><BR>(=an organization that helps people who are ill, old etc, especially a <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/charity"><U>charity</U></A> </B>)<BR>　*<I>You can get fit, and at the same time raise money <B>for a worthy cause</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>Please give generously, it's all <B>in a good cause</B> (=done in order to help people) .</I><BR>* <B>have/make common cause (with/against sb)</B><BR><I>formal</I> to join with other people or groups in order to oppose an enemy<BR>　*<I>U.S. officials expect other Western governments to make common cause with them over the arrests.</I><BR>* [C] <I>law</I> <BR>a case that is brought to a court of law<BR>→<B>lost cause</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/lost"><U>lost</U></A> </B><SUP>2 </SUP>(12)
<HR>
<B>WORD CHOICE: cause, reason</B> <BR>A <B>cause</B> is something such as an action, event, or situation that makes something happen : <I>The cause of the accident is not known.</I> |<I>a determination to tackle the causes of crime</I> <BR>A <B>reason</B> is an explanation for something : <I>Can you think of any reason why he would behave in this way? </I>| <I>There is a good reason (NOT a good cause) for my decision. </I><BR>GRAMMAR<BR>Use <B>the cause of</B> , not 'cause for' or 'cause why' : <I>What is the cause of all this unrest?</I> <BR><B>!! cause for</B> is used in some expressions such as <B>cause for alarm/concern/complaint/optimism/satisfaction</B> : <I>There is no cause for concern. </I>| <I>His remarks give some cause for hope.</I> <BR>Use <B>cause somebody to do something</B> , not 'cause that somebody does something' : <I>A cat ran into the road, causing her to brake suddenly (NOT causing that she braked suddenly).</I> 
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>cause</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">cause<SUP>2</SUP> <B>W1S1</B> <I>v</I> [T] <BR>to make something happen, especially something bad<BR>　*<I>Heavy traffic is causing delays on the freeway.</I><BR>　*<I>The fire caused £15,000 worth of damage.</I><BR><B>cause sth for sb</B><BR>　*<I>The oil spill is causing problems for coastal fisheries.</I><BR><B>cause concern/uncertainty/embarrassment etc</B><BR>　*<I>The policy changes have caused great uncertainty for the workforce.</I><BR>　*<I>I'm sorry if I <B>caused</B> any <B>confusion</B> .</I><BR><B>cause sb trouble/problems etc</B><BR>　*<I>You've caused us all a lot of unnecessary worry.</I><BR>　*<I>Sorry, I didn't mean to <B>cause offence</B> (=offend you) .</I><BR><B>cause sb/sth to do sth</B><BR>　*<I>What caused you to change your mind?</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/basis"><U>basis</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/interest"><U>interest</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/motive"><U>motive</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/reason"><U>reason</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/consequence"><U>consequence</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/effect"><U>effect</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/outcome"><U>outcome</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/result"><U>result</U></A></DIV></DIV>
