---
layout: post
title:  "Spread"
categories: wellness
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">spread<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W2S2</B> /spred/ <I>v past tense and past participle</I> <B>spread</B> 
<HR>
<B>1【affect more people/places】</B><BR><B>2【information/ideas】</B><BR><B>3【open/arrange】</B><BR><B>4【throughout an area】</B><BR><B>5【soft substance】</B><BR><B>6【arms/fingers etc】</B><BR><B>7【over time】</B><BR><B>8【share】</B><BR><B>9【smile/look】</B><BR><B>10 spread your wings</B><BR><B>11</B><BR><B>12 spread seeds/manure/fertilizer</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>spread out</B>
<HR>
[Language: Old English; Origin: sprAdan]<BR>*<B>【AFFECT MORE PEOPLE/PLACES】</B> [I and T]<BR>if something spreads or is spread, it becomes larger or moves so that it affects more people or a larger area<BR><B>spread through</B><BR>　*<I>Fire quickly spread through the building.</I><BR><B>spread over</B><BR>　*<I>He watched the dark stain spread over the gray carpet.</I><BR>　*<I>The disease <B>spread rapidly</B> amongst the poor.</I><BR><B>spread (from sth) to sth</B><BR>　*<I>The cancer had spread to her liver.</I><BR>　*<I>Revolution quickly spread from France to Italy.</I><BR>　*<I>the risk of AIDS being spread through contaminated blood</I><BR>*<B>【INFORMATION/IDEAS】</B><BR><B>a)</B> [I] <BR>to become known about or used by more and more people<BR>　*<I>News of the explosion spread swiftly.</I><BR><B>spread to/through/over etc</B><BR>　*<I>Buddhism spread to China from India.</I><BR>　*<I>The news <B>spread like wildfire</B> (=became known very quickly) .</I><BR>　*<I> <B>Word spread</B> quickly and soon a crowd had gathered.</I><BR><B>b)</B> [T] <BR>to tell a lot of people about something<BR><B>spread lies/rumours/gossip</B><BR>　*<I>Andy loves spreading rumours about his colleagues.</I><BR>　*<I>They are <B>spreading the word</B> about the benefits of immunization.</I><BR>*<B>【OPEN/ARRANGE】</B> <I>also</I> <B>spread out</B> [T]<BR>to open something out or arrange a group of things so that they cover a flat surface<BR><B>spread sth over/across/on sth</B><BR>　*<I>Papers and photos were spread across the floor.</I><BR>　*<I>He spread the map out on the desk.</I><BR>　*<I>a table spread with a white cloth</I><BR>*<B>【THROUGHOUT AN AREA】</B> [I]<BR><I>also</I> <B>be spread</B> <BR><I>and</I> <B>spread out</B> <BR>to cover or exist across a large area<BR><B>spread over</B><BR>　*<I>the forest that spread over the whole of that region</I><BR><B>spread throughout</B><BR>　*<I>The company has more than 2500 shops spread throughout the UK.</I><BR>*<B>【SOFT SUBSTANCE】</B> [I and T]<BR>to put a soft substance over a surface or to be soft enough to be put over a surface<BR><B>spread sth on/over sth</B><BR>　*<I>He spread plaster on the walls.</I><BR><B>spread sth with sth</B><BR>　*<I>Spread the toast thinly with jam.</I><BR>　*<I>If you warm up the butter it'll spread more easily.</I><BR>　*<I> <B>Spread</B> the nut mixture <B>evenly</B> over the bottom.</I><BR>*<B>【ARMS/FINGERS ETC】</B> [T]<BR>if you spread your arms, fingers or legs, you move them far apart<BR>　*<I>He shrugged and spread his hands.</I><BR>*<B>【OVER TIME】</B> [T]<BR><I>also</I> <B>spread out</B> <BR>to do something over a period of time, rather than at one time<BR><B>spread sth over sth</B><BR>　*<I>Could I spread the repayments over a longer period?</I><BR>　*<I>There will be 12 concerts spread throughout the summer.</I><BR>*<B>【SHARE】</B> [T]<BR>to share or divide something among several people or things<BR><B>spread the load/burden</B><BR>　*<I>The bills are sent out on different dates to spread the workload on council staff.</I><BR>　*<I>They want the country's wealth to be more <B>evenly spread</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【SMILE/LOOK】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR>if an expression spreads over someone's face, it slowly appears on their face<BR><B>spread over/across</B><BR>　*<I>A slow smile spread over her face.</I><BR>* <B>spread your wings</B><BR><B>a)</B> to start to have an independent life and experience new things<BR>　*<I>A year spent studying abroad should allow him to spread his wings a bit.</I><BR><B>b)</B> if a bird or insect spreads its wings, it stretches them wide<BR>*<B>a) be spread (too) thin/thinly</B><BR>if money, effort etc is spread thin, it is being used for many things so there is not enough for each thing<BR>　*<I>They complained that resources were spread too thinly.</I><BR><B>b) spread yourself too thin</B><BR>to try to do too many things at the same time so that you do not do any of them effectively<BR>* <B>spread seeds/manure/fertilizer</B><BR>to scatter seeds, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/manure"><U>manure</U></A> etc on the ground<BR>→<B>spread your net wide</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/net"><U>net</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(8)<BR><B>spread out</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>*if a group of people spread out, they move apart from each other so that they cover a wider area<BR>　*<I>The search party spread out to search the surrounding fields.</I><BR>* <B>spread sth⇔out</B><BR>to open something out or arrange a group of things on a flat surface<BR>　*<I>Sue spread out her notes on the kitchen table and began to write.</I><BR>* <I>also</I> <B>be spread out</B> <BR>to cover a large area<BR>　*<I>The city spread out below her looked so calm.</I><BR>* <B>spread sth⇔out</B><BR>to do something over a period of time, rather than at one time<BR><B>spread something⇔out over</B><BR>　*<I>The course is spread out over four days.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>spread</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">spread<SUP>2</SUP> <I>n</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【increase】</B><BR><B>2【soft food】</B><BR><B>3【range】</B><BR><B>4【area】</B><BR><B>5 double-page spread/centre spread</B><BR><B>6【large meal】</B><BR><B>7【hand/wings】</B><BR><B>8【bed cover】</B><BR><B>9【money】</B><BR><B>10【sport】</B><BR><B>11 spread of land/water</B><BR><B>12【farm】</B>
<HR>
*<B>【INCREASE】</B> [singular]<BR>when something affects or is known about by more people or involves a larger area<BR>→<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/increase"><U>increase</U></A> <B>spread of</B><BR>　*<I>an attempt to stop the spread of nuclear weapons</I><BR>　*<I>the <B>rapid spread</B> of cholera in Latin America</I><BR>*<B>【SOFT FOOD】</B> [U and C]<BR><B>a)</B> a soft substance made from vegetable oil that is used like butter<BR>　*<I>one slice of toast with a low-fat spread</I><BR><B>b)</B> a soft food which you spread on bread<BR><B>cheese/chocolate etc spread</B><BR>*<B>【RANGE】</B> [singular]<BR>a range of people or things<BR><B>wide/broad/good spread of sth</B><BR>　*<I>We have a good spread of ages in the department.</I><BR>　*<I>a broad spread of investments</I><BR>*<B>【AREA】</B> [singular]<BR>the total area in which something exists<BR>　*<I>the <B>geographical spread</B> of the company's hotels</I><BR>* <B>double-page spread/centre spread</B><BR>a special article or advertisement in a newspaper or magazine, which covers two pages or covers the centre pages<BR>　*<I>There's a double-page spread in Sunday's paper.</I><BR>*<B>【LARGE MEAL】</B> [singular] <I>informal</I><BR>a large meal for several guests on a special occasion<BR>　*<I>Chris's mum laid on a huge spread.</I><BR>*<B>【HAND/WINGS】</B>[U]<BR>the area covered when the fingers of a hand, or a bird's wings, are fully stretched<BR>*<B>【BED COVER】</B> [C] <BR>a <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bedspread"><U>bedspread</U></A><BR>*<B>【MONEY】</B> [C] <I>technical</I> <BR>the difference between the prices at which something is bought and sold, or the <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/interest"><U>interest</U></A> rates for lending and borrowing money<BR><B>spread between</B><BR>　*<I>the spread between the city banks' loan rates and deposit rates</I><BR>*<B>【SPORT】</B> [singular]<BR><I>AmE</I> the number of points between the scores of two opposing teams<BR>　*<I>a four-point spread</I><BR>* <B>spread of land/water</B><BR>an area of land or water<BR>*<B>【FARM】</B> [C] <I>AmE</I> <BR>a large farm or <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/ranch"><U>ranch</U></A><BR>→<B>middle-aged spread</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/middle-aged"><U>middle-aged</U></A></B></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/disperse"><U>disperse</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/distribute"><U>distribute</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/extend"><U>extend</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/scatter"><U>scatter</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/sprawl"><U>sprawl</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/stretch%20out"><U>stretch out</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/unfold"><U>unfold</U></A></DIV></DIV>
