---
layout: post
title:  "Pass"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">pass<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W1S1</B> /pɑːs US pæs/ <I>v</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【go past】</B><BR><B>2【move/go】</B><BR><B>3【put】</B><BR><B>4【road/river etc】</B><BR><B>5【give】</B><BR><B>6【give information】</B><BR><B>7【time】</B><BR><B>8【exam/test】</B><BR><B>9【law/proposal】</B><BR><B>10【happen】</B><BR><B>11【say】</B><BR><B>12 let something pass</B><BR><B>13【end】</B><BR><B>14【sport】</B><BR><B>15【more than】</B><BR><B>16 pass unnoticed</B><BR><B>17 pass the time of day (with somebody)</B><BR><B>18【change control】</B><BR><B>19【change】</B><BR><B>20 pass (a) sentence (on somebody)</B><BR><B>21 pass judgment (on somebody)</B><BR><B>22【give no answer】</B><BR><B>23【not accept】</B><BR><B>24 not pass somebody's lips</B><BR><B>25【waste matter】</B><BR><B>26 come to pass</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>pass as somebody/something</B><BR>　<B>pass something⇔around</B><BR>　<B>pass away</B><BR>　<B>pass by</B><BR>　<B>pass something⇔down</B><BR>　<B>pass for somebody/something</B><BR>　<B>pass off</B><BR>　<B>pass on</B><BR>　<B>pass out</B><BR>　<B>pass over</B><BR>　<B>pass something⇔up</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1200-1300; Language: Old French; Origin: passer, from <I>Vulgar Latin</I> passare, from <I>Latin</I> passus <I>'step'</I>]<BR>*<B>【GO PAST】</B> [I and T]<BR>to come up to a particular place, person, or object and go past them<BR>　*<I>The crowd parted to let the truck pass.</I><BR>　*<I>He gave me a smile as he passed.</I><BR>　*<I>We passed a group of students outside the theatre.</I><BR>　*<I>I pass the sports centre on the way to work.</I><BR>*<B>【MOVE/GO】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to go or travel along or through a place<BR>　*<I>He passed along the corridor to a small room at the back of the building.</I><BR>　*<I>We passed through the gates into a courtyard behind.</I><BR>　*<I>We were <B>just passing through</B> (=travelling through a place) and thought we'd drop in to see you.</I><BR>*<B>【PUT】</B> [T always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to put something around, through, or across something else<BR>　*<I>He passed the rope carefully around the post.</I><BR>*<B>【ROAD/RIVER ETC】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition, T]<BR>a road, river, or railway line that passes a place goes through or near the place<BR>　*<I>The road <B>passes</B> right <B>through</B> the town centre.</I><BR>　*<I>The main railway line passes just north of Manchester.</I><BR>*<B>【GIVE】</B> [T]<BR>to hold something in your hand and give it to someone else<BR>　*<I>Pass the salt, please.</I><BR><B>pass sb sth</B><BR>　*<I>Can you pass me that bag by your feet?</I><BR><B>pass sth to sb</B><BR>　*<I>She passed a cup of tea to the headmaster.</I><BR>　*<I>I passed the note back to her.</I><BR>→<B>pass around</B><BR>*<B>【GIVE INFORMATION】</B> [T always + adverb/preposition]<BR>to give information or a job to another person so that they can deal with it<BR><B>pass sth (on/over/back) to sb</B><BR>　*<I>I'll pass the information on to our sales department.</I><BR>　*<I>They've passed the enquiry over to the police.</I><BR>*<B>【TIME】</B><BR><B>a)</B> [I] <BR>if time passes, it goes by<BR>　*<I>The days passed slowly.</I><BR>　*<I>She became more ambitious as the years passed.</I><BR>　*<I>They sat in silence while the minutes passed.</I><BR>　*<I> <B>Hardly a day passes without</B> more bad news about the economy (=there is bad news almost every day) .</I><BR><B>b)</B> [T] <BR>if you pass time or pass your life in a particular way, you spend it in that way<BR>　*<I>We passed the winter pleasantly enough.</I><BR>　*<I>We played cards <B>to pass the time</B> (=to help us stop feeling bored) .</I><BR>*<B>【EXAM/TEST】</B><BR><B>a)</B> [I and T] <BR>to succeed in an examination or test<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fail"><U>fail</U></A><BR>　*<I>Did you pass all your exams?</I><BR>　*<I>He hasn't passed his driving test yet.</I><BR>　*<I>She <B>passed with flying colours</B> (=got very high marks) .</I><BR><B>b)</B> [T] <BR>to officially decide that someone has succeeded in an examination or test<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fail"><U>fail</U></A><BR>　*<I>The examiners will only pass you if they feel that you have done the work properly.</I><BR>*<B>【LAW/PROPOSAL】</B><BR><B>a)</B> [T] <BR>to officially accept a law or proposal, especially by voting<BR>　*<I>Plans to extend the hotel have now been passed.</I><BR>　*<I>The motion was passed by 16 votes to 11.</I><BR><B>pass a law/bill/act</B><BR>　*<I>The first Transport Act was passed in 1907.</I><BR>　*<I>The government has <B>passed</B> new <B>legislation</B> to protect consumers.</I><BR>　*<I>The United Nations Security Council has <B>passed a resolution</B> asking the two countries to resume peace negotiations.</I><BR><B>b)</B> [I and T] <I>especially AmE</I> if a law or proposal passes an official group, it is officially accepted by that group<BR>　*<I>The bill failed to pass the House of Representatives.</I><BR>*<B>【HAPPEN】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR><I>written</I> if something passes between people, they speak to each other or do something together<BR><B>pass between</B><BR>　*<I>A glance of recognition passed between them.</I><BR>　*<I>Please say nothing of what has passed here today.</I><BR>*<B>【SAY】</B><BR><B>pass a remark/comment</B><BR>to say something that gives your opinion<BR>　*<I>I'm afraid I can't pass any comment on this matter.</I><BR>　*<I>He passed some remark about doctors being paid too much.</I><BR>* <B>let sth pass</B><BR>to deliberately not say anything when someone says or does something that you do not like<BR>　*<I>Carla made some comment about my work but I decided to <B>let it pass</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【END】</B> [I]<BR>to end or stop<BR>　*<I>After a couple of hours the storm passed.</I><BR>　*<I>The feeling of sickness soon passed.</I><BR>*<B>【SPORT】</B> [I and T]<BR>to kick, throw, or hit a ball to a member of your own team during a game<BR><B>pass to</B><BR>　*<I>He passed to Beckham on the edge of the penalty area.</I><BR><B>pass sth to sb</B><BR>　*<I>Are you allowed to pass the ball back to the goalkeeper?</I><BR>*<B>【MORE THAN】</B> [T]<BR>to become more than a particular number or amount<BR>　*<I>The number of unemployed has <B>passed the</B> two million <B>mark</B> for the first time.</I><BR>* <B>pass unnoticed</B><BR>to happen without anyone noticing or saying anything<BR>　*<I>His resignation passed largely unnoticed.</I><BR>* <B>pass the time of day (with sb)</B><BR>to talk to someone for a short time in order to be friendly<BR>*<B>【CHANGE CONTROL】</B> [I always + preposition] <I>formal</I><BR>to change from being controlled or owned by one person to being controlled or owned by someone else<BR><B>pass to</B><BR>　*<I>The land will pass to my son when I die.</I><BR>　*<I>Control of these services has now <B>passed into the hands of</B> the local authorities.</I><BR>*<B>【CHANGE】</B> [I always + preposition] <I>formal</I><BR>to change from one state or condition into another<BR><B>pass from/to</B><BR>　*<I>The chemical passes from a liquid to a solid state during the cooling process.</I><BR>* <B>pass (a) sentence (on sb)</B><BR>to officially decide how a criminal will be punished, and to announce what the punishment will be<BR>　*<I>Judges no longer have the power to pass the death sentence.</I><BR>* <B>pass judgment (on sb)</B><BR>to give your opinion about someone's behaviour<BR>　*<I>I don't want to pass judgment on my colleagues.</I><BR>*<B>【GIVE NO ANSWER】</B> [I]<BR>to give no answer to a question because you do not know the answer<BR>　*<I>'Who won the World Cup in 1998?' 'Pass.'</I><BR>*<B>【NOT ACCEPT】</B> [I]<BR>to not accept an invitation or offer<BR><B>pass on</B><BR>　*<I>I'm afraid I'll have to pass on that offer of coffee.</I><BR>* <B>not pass sb's lips</B><BR><I>humorous</I> <B>a)</B> used to say that someone does not talk about something that is secret<BR>　*<I>Don't worry. Not a word of this will pass my lips.</I><BR><B>b)</B> used to say that someone does not eat or drink a particular thing<BR>　*<I>Not a drop of liquor has passed my lips.</I><BR>*<B>【WASTE MATTER】</B> [T]<BR><I>medical</I> to let out a waste substance from your <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bladder"><U>bladder</U></A> or <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/bowel"><U>bowel</U></A> s<BR>　*<I>See your doctor immediately if you pass any blood.</I><BR>　*<I>He was having difficulty <B>passing water</B> (=letting outurine) .</I><BR>* <B>come to pass</B><BR><I>literary or biblical</I> to happen<BR>→<B>pass muster</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/muster"><U>muster</U></A> </B><SUP>2 </SUP>(1)<BR>→<B>pass the buck</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/buck"><U>buck</U></A> </B><SUP>1 </SUP>(3)<BR><B>pass as /</B> [pass as sb/sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>if someone or something can pass as someone or something, they are similar enough to be accepted as that type of person or thing<BR>　*<I>His French is so good that he can pass as a Frenchman.</I><BR><B>pass around</B> [pass sth⇔around] <I>phr v</I><BR>to offer or show something to each person in a group<BR>　*<I>Pass the cookies around, would you?</I><BR>→<B>pass the hat round/around</B> <I>at</I> <B><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/hat"><U>hat</U></A></B><BR><B>pass away</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>to die - use this when you want to avoid saying the word 'die'<BR><B>pass by</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>* <B>pass by (sb/sth)</B><BR>to go past a person, place, vehicle etc<BR>　*<I>They all waved as they passed by.</I><BR>　*<I>Will you be passing by the supermarket on your way home?</I><BR>→<B> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/passerby"><U>passerby</U></A></B><BR>* <B>pass sb by</B><BR>if something passes you by, it happens but you are not involved in it<BR>　*<I>She felt that life was passing her by.</I><BR><B>pass down</B> [pass sth⇔down] <I>phr v</I><BR>to give or teach something to people who are younger than you or live after you<BR><B>pass sth down (from sb) to sb</B><BR>　*<I>The tradition has been passed down from father to son for generations.</I><BR><B>pass for /</B> [pass for sb/sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>if something passes for another thing, it is so similar to that thing that people think that is what it is<BR>　*<I>With my hair cut short, I could have passed for a boy.</I><BR><B>pass off</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>* <B>pass off well/badly etc</B><BR>if an event passes off well, badly etc, it happens in that way<BR>　*<I>The visit passed off without any serious incidents.</I><BR>* <B>pass sb/sth off as sth</B><BR>to make people think that someone or something is another thing<BR>　*<I>They bought up pieces of old furniture and passed them off as valuable antiques.</I><BR>　*<I>He passed himself off as a doctor.</I><BR><B>pass on</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>* <B>pass sth⇔on</B><BR>to give someone a piece of information that someone else has given to you<BR><B>pass something⇔on to</B><BR>　*<I>She said she'd pass the message on to the other students.</I><BR>* <B>pass sth⇔on</B><BR><B>a)</B> to give something, especially a disease, to your children through your <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/gene"><U>gene</U></A> s<BR><B>b)</B> to give a slight illness to someone else<BR><B>pass something⇔on to</B><BR>　*<I>One catches the virus and they pass it on to the rest.</I><BR>* <B>pass sth⇔on</B><BR>to make someone else pay the cost of something<BR><B>pass something⇔on to</B><BR>　*<I>Any increase in our costs will have to be passed on to the consumer.</I><BR>*to die - use this when you want to avoid saying the word 'die'<BR><B>pass out</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>*to become unconscious<BR>　*<I>I nearly passed out when I saw all the blood.</I><BR>* <I>especially BrE</I> to finish a course of study at a military school or police college<BR>* <B>pass sth⇔out</B><BR>to give something, such as books or papers, to everyone in a group<BR>= <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/hand%20out"><U>hand out</U></A>,<A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/distribute"><U>distribute</U></A><BR><B>pass over</B> <I>phr v</I><BR>* <B>pass sb⇔over</B> [usually in passive] <BR>if you pass someone over for a job, you choose someone else who is younger or lower in the organization than them<BR>　*<I>This is the second time I've been <B>passed over for promotion</B> (=someone else has been given a higher job instead of me) .</I><BR>* <B>pass over sth</B><BR>if you pass over a remark or subject, you do not spend any time discussing it<BR>　*<I>I want to pass over this quite quickly.</I><BR>　*<I>I think we'd better pass over that last remark.</I><BR><B>pass up</B> [pass sth⇔up] <I>phr v</I><BR>to not make use of a chance to do something<BR><B>pass up a chance/opportunity/offer</B><BR>　*<I>I don't think you should pass up the opportunity to go to university.</I>
<HR>
<B>HINT sense 7</B> <BR>It is more usual to say that you <B>spend</B> time doing something than you 'pass time' doing something: <I>I spent (NOT passed) the whole day watching TV.</I> 
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>pass</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">pass<SUP>2</SUP> <B>W3S2</B> <I>n</I> [C] 
<HR>
<B>1【document】</B><BR><B>2【exam/test】</B><BR><B>3【sport】</B><BR><B>4 make a pass at somebody</B><BR><B>5【road/path】</B><BR><B>6【stage】</B><BR><B>7【aircraft】</B><BR><B>8 come to a pretty/sorry pass</B>
<HR>
[<B>Sense: 1-4, 6-8</B>; Date: 1400-1500; Origin: <B>PASS<SUP>1</SUP></B>]<BR>[<B>Sense: 5</B>; Date: 1200-1300; Language: Old French; Origin: pas, from <I>Latin</I> passus; <B>PASS<SUP>1</SUP></B>]<BR>*<B>【DOCUMENT】</B><BR>an official piece of paper which shows that you are allowed to enter a building or travel on something without paying<BR>　*<I>The guard checked our passes.</I><BR>　*<I>They issued us with free passes to the theatre.</I><BR>　*<I>You can buy a cheap one-day <B>bus pass</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【EXAM/TEST】</B><BR>a successful result in an examination<BR>≠ <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fail"><U>fail</U></A><BR>　*<I>You will need at least three passes to get onto the course.</I><BR><B>pass in</B><BR>　*<I>Did you get a pass in English?</I><BR>　*<I>The <B>pass mark</B> (=the mark you need to be successful) is 55%.</I><BR>*<B>【SPORT】</B><BR>when you kick, throw, or hit a ball to another member of your team during a game<BR>　*<I>That was a brilliant pass by Holden.</I><BR>* <B>make a pass at sb</B> <I>informal</I> <BR>to try to kiss or touch another person with the intention of starting a sexual relationship with them<BR>*<B>【ROAD/PATH】</B><BR>a high road or path that goes between mountains to the other side<BR>　*<I>a narrow, winding mountain pass</I><BR>*<B>【STAGE】</B><BR>one part of a process that involves dealing with the whole of a group or thing several times<BR>　*<I>On the first pass we eliminated all the candidates who didn't have the right experience.</I><BR>*<B>【AIRCRAFT】</B><BR>a movement in which an aircraft flies once over a place which it is attacking<BR>* <B>come to a pretty/sorry pass</B><BR><I>old-fashioned informal</I> if things have come to a pretty or sorry pass, a situation has become very bad</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/deliver"><U>deliver</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/do%20well"><U>do well</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/employ"><U>employ</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/go"><U>go</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/hand%20over"><U>hand over</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/move"><U>move</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/progress"><U>progress</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/spend"><U>spend</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/succeed"><U>succeed</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/transfer"><U>transfer</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/travel"><U>travel</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/use"><U>use</U></A></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">ant.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/fail"><U>fail</U></A></DIV></DIV>
