---
layout: post
title:  "Pace"
categories: undefined
tag: good
word_excerpt: at a snail's pace 
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">pace<SUP>1</SUP> <B>W3</B> /peɪs/ <I>n</I> 
<HR>
<B>1【speed of events/changes】</B><BR><B>2【walk/run】</B><BR><B>3【step】</B><BR><B>4 keep pace (with something/somebody)</B><BR><B>5 go through your paces</B><BR><B>6 put somebody/something through their paces</B><BR><B>7 set the pace</B><BR><B>8 force the pace</B><BR><B>9 be able to stand the pace</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1200-1300; Language: Old French; Origin: pas <I>'step'</I>, from <I>Latin</I> passus]<BR>*<B>【SPEED OF EVENTS/CHANGES】</B> [singular]<BR>the speed at which something happens or is done<BR>　*<I>The <B>pace of change</B> in our lives is becoming faster and faster.</I><BR>　*<I>Here in Bermuda, the <B>pace of life</B> is very slow.</I><BR>　*<I>Public spending continues to rise <B>at a steady pace</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>Children learn best by studying <B>at their own pace</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>The company had been growing <B>at breakneck pace</B> until last year.</I><BR>　*<I>Support for European unity began to <B>gather pace</B> .</I><BR>　*<I>If they can <B>keep up the pace</B> , they should have finished by early next week.</I><BR>　*<I>Things are changing, but <B>at a snail's pace</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【WALK/RUN】</B> [singular]<BR>the speed at which someone walks, runs, or moves<BR><B>pace of</B><BR>　*<I>You need to step up the pace of your exercises.</I><BR><B>at a slow/leisurely/brisk etc pace</B><BR>　*<I>Lucy set off at a leisurely pace back to the hotel.</I><BR>　*<I>He <B>quickened</B> his <B>pace</B> , longing to be home.</I><BR>　*<I>Traffic slowed to a <B>walking pace</B> .</I><BR>*<B>【STEP】</B> [C] <BR>a single step when you are running or walking, or the distance you move in one step<BR><B>pace backwards/towards/forwards etc</B><BR>　*<I>He <B>took</B> a <B>pace</B> towards the door.</I><BR>　*<I>Rebecca walked a few paces behind her mum.</I><BR>* <B>keep pace (with sth/sb)</B><BR>to change or increase as fast as something else, or to move as fast as someone else<BR>　*<I>Salaries have not always kept pace with inflation.</I><BR>　*<I>The supply of materials cannot keep pace with demand.</I><BR>　*<I>Slow down! I can't keep pace with you.</I><BR>* <B>go through your paces</B> <I>also</I> <B>show your paces</B> <BR>to show how well you can do something<BR>* <B>put sb/sth through their paces</B><BR>to make a person, vehicle, animal etc show how well they can do something<BR>　*<I>The test driver puts all the cars through their paces.</I><BR>* <B>set the pace</B><BR><B>a)</B> if a company sets the pace, it does something before its competitors or to a better standard<BR><B>set the pace in</B><BR>　*<I>Japanese firms have been setting the pace in electronic engineering.</I><BR><B>b)</B> <I>also</I> <B>set a brisk/cracking etc pace</B> <I>BrE</I> <BR>to go faster than the other competitors in a race, who then try to achieve the same speed<BR>　*<I>The Italians set the pace for the first eight laps.</I><BR>* <B>force the pace</B><BR>to make something happen or develop more quickly than it would do normally<BR><B>force the pace on</B><BR>　*<I>measures designed to force the pace on alternative energy policies</I><BR>* <B>be able to stand the pace</B><BR>to be able to deal with situations where you are very busy and have to think and act very quickly<BR>　*<I>If you can stand the pace, working in advertising pays well.</I>
<HR>
<B>COLLOCATES for sense 1</B> <BR><B>pace of change/reform/growth</B> <BR><B>pace of life</B> <BR><B>at your own pace</B> (=at the pace that suits you) <BR><B>at a rapid/slow/steady etc pace</B> <BR><B>at breakneck pace</B> (=extremely fast) <BR><B>gather pace</B> (=happen more quickly) <BR><B>keep up the pace</B> (=continue to do something or happen as quickly as before) <BR><B>at a snail's pace</B> (=very slowly) <BR><B>HINT sense 1</B> <BR>Do not say 'in your own pace' or 'on your own pace'. Say <B>at your own pace.</B> 
<HR>
</DIV>
<DIV style="COLOR: #808080; MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><SPAN style="FONT-SIZE: 10.5pt; COLOR: #000000; LINE-HEIGHT: normal"><B>pace</B></SPAN> <SUP style="FONT-SIZE: 83%; LINE-HEIGHT: normal">2</SUP> </DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">pace<SUP>2</SUP> <I>v</I> <BR>* [I always + adverb/preposition, T] <BR>to walk first in one direction and then in another many times, especially because you are nervous<BR>　*<I>I found Mark at the hospital, <B>pacing</B> restlessly <B>up and down</B> .</I><BR><B>pace the floor/room</B><BR>　*<I>Sam stood up and paced the floor, deep in thought.</I><BR>* <B>pace yourself</B><BR><B>a)</B> to control the speed that you move at in a race, so that you still have energy left near the end<BR>　*<I>Nicky paced herself and came through the ranks to win.</I><BR><B>b)</B> to organize your life and activities so that you do not have too much to do<BR>　*<I>You need to pace yourself and decide which tasks are the most important.</I><BR>* [T] <I>also</I> <B>pace sth⇔off</B> <BR><B>pace sth⇔out</B> <BR>to measure a distance by walking across it with steps of equal length<BR>　*<I>The director paced out the length of the stage.</I></DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/rate"><U>rate</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/speed"><U>speed</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/stride"><U>stride</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/tread"><U>tread</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/walk"><U>walk</U></A></DIV></DIV>
