---
layout: post
title:  "Pour"
categories: undefined
tag: good
---
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">pour<BR><B>W3S2</B> /pɔː US pɔːr/ <I>v</I> <BR><A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/cup"><U>cup</U></A>, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/saucer"><U>saucer</U></A>, <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/teapot"><U>teapot</U></A> 
<HR>
<B>1【liquid】</B><BR><B>2【liquid/smoke】</B><BR><B>3【rain】</B><BR><B>4【people or things】</B><BR><B>5【light】</B><BR><B>6 pour cold water over/on something</B><BR><B>7 pour scorn on somebody/something</B><BR><B>8 pour oil on troubled waters</B><BR><B>9 pour it on</B><BR><B>10 pour on the charm</B><BR><B>Phrasal verbs</B><BR>　<B>pour something into something</B><BR>　<B>pour something⇔out</B>
<HR>
[Date: 1200-1300; Origin: Perhaps from <I>French dialect</I> purer, from <I>Latin</I> purus; <B>PURE</B>]<BR>*<B>【LIQUID】</B> [T]<BR>to make a liquid or other substance flow out of or into a container by holding it at an angle<BR>　*<I>She poured coffee for everyone.</I><BR><B>pour sth into/out/down etc (sth)</B><BR>　*<I>Pour the oil into a frying pan and heat.</I><BR><B>pour sth away</B><BR>(=get rid of something)<BR>　*<I>The wine was so bad I just poured it away.</I><BR><B>pour sb sth</B><BR>　*<I>Why don't you <B>pour</B> yourself another <B>drink</B> ?</I><BR>*<B>【LIQUID/SMOKE】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR>if a lot of liquid or smoke pours out, it comes out from somewhere in very large amounts<BR><B>pour from/down/out</B><BR>　*<I>Smoke was pouring out of the upstairs windows.</I><BR>　*<I>Blood was pouring from his nose.</I><BR>*<B>【RAIN】</B> <I>also</I> <B>pour down</B> [I]<BR>to rain heavily without stopping<BR>　*<I> <B>It's pouring</B> now.</I><BR>　*<I> <B>It poured</B> all night.</I><BR><B>it's pouring with rain/it poured with rain</B> <I>BrE</I><BR>　*<I>It was pouring down with rain at three o'clock.</I><BR>*<B>【PEOPLE OR THINGS】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR>if lot of people or things pour into or out of a place, a lot of them arrive or leave at the same time<BR><B>pour into/out of/from etc</B><BR>　*<I>The crowds began pouring out of the stadium.</I><BR>　*<I>Offers of help poured in from all over the country.</I><BR>*<B>【LIGHT】</B> [I always + adverb/preposition]<BR>if light is pouring into or out of a place, a lot of light is coming in or out<BR><B>pour into/out of</B><BR>　*<I>Light was pouring into the courtyard.</I><BR>* <B>pour cold water over/on sth</B><BR>to criticize someone's plan, idea, or desire to do something so much that they no longer feel excited about it<BR>* <B>pour scorn on sb/sth</B><BR>to say that something or someone is stupid and not worth considering<BR>* <B>pour oil on troubled waters</B><BR>to try to stop a quarrel, for example by talking to people and making them calmer<BR>* <B>pour it on</B><BR><B>a)</B> to behave or talk in a particular way in order to make people like you or feel sorry for you<BR><B>b)</B> <I>AmE informal</I> to try very hard in order to do something, especially in order to win a game<BR>　*<I>The Raiders really poured it on in the second quarter.</I><BR>* <B>pour on the charm</B><BR>to behave in a very nice and polite way, in order to make someone like you<BR><B>pour into</B> [pour sth into sth] <I>phr v</I><BR>if people pour money into something, they provide a lot of money for it over a period of time, in order to make it successful<BR>　*<I>They've poured thousands of pounds into developing the business.</I><BR><B>pour out</B> [pour sth⇔out] <I>phr v</I><BR>if you pour out your thoughts, feelings etc, you tell someone all about them, especially because you feel very unhappy<BR>　*<I>She poured out all her troubles to him.</I><BR><B>pour out your heart/soul</B><BR>(=tell someone all your feelings, including your most secret ones)</DIV>
<DIV style="MARGIN: 0px 0px 5px">
<DIV style="MARGIN: 4px 0px">syn.: <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/drain"><U>drain</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/spew"><U>spew</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/spill"><U>spill</U></A> <A href="{{ site.baseurl }}/stream"><U>stream</U></A></DIV></DIV>
